.TH BLITBLT 9 "(Blit)"
.SH NAME
blitblt \- produce hard copy of Blit screen image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B blitblt
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Blitblt
is a program that copies part or all of a Blit screen into a file
or down a pipe to a printer daemon.  The data are compressed (typically by
a factor of 3 to 5) as they leave the
Blit to save transmission time and file space.
The program is menu driven off button 3 as follows:
.TP 8m
.B choose layer
A bull's eye cursor appears.
Clicking button 3 with the cursor inside a layer (cf.
.I joff\c
(9)) selects it for subsequent manipulations.
.TP
.B flip stipple
The stipple pattern is inverted in the previously selected layer or rectangle.
.TP
.B reverse video
The video is inverted in the selected layer or rectangle.
.TP
.B run/halt
The
terminal
process in the selected layer is continued or halted.
This menu entry changes with the layer's status.
.TP
.B sweep rectangle
A rectangle cursor appears.  The rectangle swept out on button 3
becomes the selected area for subsequent manipulations.
.TP
.B whole screen
The entire Blit screen, including border areas, but excluding the
.I blitblt
layer itself, is selected.
.TP
.B write file
The portion of the screen previously selected and prepared is written
into a file.  The filename is typed in answer to a prompt appearing
at the bottom of the
.I blitblt
layer.  Hitting return selects the (default) name in parenthesis.
.TP
.B pipe to bcan
The selected portion of the screen is sent to the laser printer.
.TP
.B exit
Must be confirmed by clicking button 3 in response to the skull cursor.
.SH FILES
/usr/jerq/mbin/bbterm.m \- terminal program
.br
/usr/bin/[4]bcan \- print command
.SH BUGS
Moving layers (e.g., clocks) result in broken images.  Use the
.B halt
function.
.PP
If a
.B pipe
request fails, the
.I blitblt
layer generally becomes unusable.
