.TH FED 1 Blit
.SH NAME
fed \- Blit font editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fed
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Fed
is the font editor for the Blit terminal.
It relies heavily on the mouse for selecting text and commands.
It only runs under
.IR mpx (1).
.IR Fed 's
screen consists of a number of areas:
a rectangle on the right showing the fonts currently being edited,
a strip along the top showing text printed in the current font,
and a small (real size) and enlarged view of the current character.
.PP
The mouse buttons are used for the most common operations.
Clicking button 1 inside a font selects the new current character.
Clicking button 1 inside the exploded character will invert the pixel
pointed at by the cursor.
Button 2 provides a menu for managing the exploded character.
Button 3 provides font operations.
.PP
The button 2 menu entries are:
.TP
.B "char bounds"
Draw a rectangle for the bounds of the current character.
This will affect the bits stored for this character and the fields
.IR top and
.IR bottom.
.TP
.B baseline
Draw a rectangle corresponding to the desired position of the baseline.
The left edge and width of the rectangle affect the
.IR left
and
.IR width
ields.
The vertical position of the baseline is set by the top edge of the rectangle.
.TP
.B restart
Restart editing this character.
.PP
The button 3 menu entries are:
.TP
.B "get font"
The user is prompted for the name of a file containing a font.
The only editing provided is BS (delete last character) and @ (delete whole line).
The name is terminated by a newline.
While the font is being downloaded, the cursor becomes a Buddha.
.TP
.B "put font"
After selecting the font to be written out,
the user is prompted the name of the file to put the font.
The original name is supplied as a first approximation.
.TP
.B "copy char"
The user selects (with button 1) the character to be copied and its destination.
Characters can be copied within or between fonts.
.TP
.B "sample text"
The user is prompted for a text sample to be displayed in the current font.
.TP
.B "exit"
Quit the editor.
No fonts are written out.
.PP
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/jerq/lib/fed.m      'u
/usr/jerq/lib/fed.m	terminal support program
.SH CAVEATS
If something strange happens, try restarting the current character.
