.TH ICON 1 Blit
.SH NAME
icon \- icon editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B icon
[
.B \-x
number ] [
.B \-y
number ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR icon
is a pixel-level editor for (16\(mu16) textures and small bitmaps.
An icon screen consists of i) a magnified grid where each square represents
a pixel: squares can be turned black by pressing the left mouse button, and can be 
turned white by pressing the middle button; and ii) an image of the grid
in the top left corner which displays the picture at its normal size.
.PP
The following is an elaboration of the
help command on the button three menu.
The command icons are listed in order
left to right and
top to bottom in the menu. Rectangles can always be selected by
the middle button (which supplies a fixed 16\(mu16 rectangle) or swept by the right
button (for rectangles of any size).
.LP
 \(bu arrow: move a region (subsequently, sweep a source rectangle
and click at a destination)
 \(bu copier: copy a region (subsequently, sweep a source rectangle
and click at a destination)
 \(bu inverted cross: invert a region (subsequently, sweep a rectangle)
 \(bu garbage can: erase a region (subsequently, sweep a rectangle)
 \(bu horizontal (vertical) folded arrow: reflect a region horizontally (vertically) (subsequently, sweep a rectangle)
 \(bu clockwise (counterclockwise) arrow: rotate a region clockwise (couterclockwise) (subsequently, sweep a rectangle)
 \(bu horizontal (vertical) sheared lines: shear a region horizontally (vertically) (subsequently, sweep a source rectangle and point at the position that the 
nearest corner of the rectangle must assume after shearing)
 \(bu scaled square: scale a region (subsequently, sweep a source rectangle and
sweep a destination rectangle (bigger or smaller than the source) to which the 
destination will be moved and scaled (i.e. stretched or compressed))
 \(bu tweed pattern: texture a region (subsequently, sweep a source rectangle and
a (bigger) destination rectangle, which will be filled with copies of the source).
 \(bu glasses: read an icon (subsequently, type a file name and position the
icon frame by clicking)
 \(bu grid: switch on or off the background grid.
 \(bu mouse: pick up a 16\(mu16 rectangle and make it the current cursor icon
(subsequently, click a button to pick up a 16\(mu16 region, and click a button to
revert to normal)
 \(bu pen: write an icon (subsequently, sweep a rectangle to write out and
write a file name)
 \(bu bitblt: bitblt a region (subsequently driven by submenus on button 3)
 \(bu help: display help information (subsequently, press a button to revert to normal)
 \(bu gun: exit (subsequenly, press button 3 to confirm, or button 1 or 2
to abort exit)
.PP
Icon files are written in two formats. When the region to write is swept by
the middle button (obtaining a 16\(mu16 rectangle) a "Texture" definition is written 
(see <blit.h>), which can be directly included in C programs. When the region to 
write is swept by the right button, a simple
hexadecimal format (e.g. 0xFA22, 0X4EA4, ..) 
is used. Both formats can be read back without need to specify which is
being used.
.PP
The options determine the size of the initial grid.
.PP
.B \-x
determines the horizontal size (default 50)
.PP
.B \-y
determines the vertical size (default 50)
.PP
.I icon
runs only under
.IR mpx (1).
.PP
.SH BUGS
On reshape, the icon being drawn is lost.
