.TH JX 1 Blit
.SH NAME
jx \- Blit execution and stdio interpreter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jx
file
[ arguments ]
.br
.B ... | jx
file [ arguments ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Jx
downloads the program in
.I file
to the Blit on /dev/tty
and runs it there, simulating most of the standard I/O library
functions.
.I stdout
and
.I stderr
are properly redirected, while
.I stdin
is properly redirected only if it is not from the
keyboard.
Programs wishing to read from the keyboard should use kbdchar().
If running under
.IR mpx (1),
the arguments are passed to the program.
.PP
.I stdout
and
.I stderr,
if directed to a controlling Blit, will be squirrelled away during
execution to be cat'ed after the terminal program has
been rebooted.
.PP
Programs intended for use by
.I jx
should include <blitio.h>
and call exit() upon termination.  exit() returns control to
the shell and causes a reboot of
the ROM terminal program.
.I Jx
programs to be run stand-alone
should be compiled with
the
.I \-j
option of
.IR mcc .
No special options are required for running under
.IR mpx (1).
.PP
Stdio functions available under
.I jx
are
.RS 3
.br
getc	getchar	fgets
.br
putc	putchar	puts	fputs	fflush
.br
fopen	freopen	fclose	access
.br
popen	pclose
.br
printf	sprintf	fprintf
.br
fread	fwrite
.RE
.PP
.I Printf
is stripped down.
It has %d, %s, %c, %o and %x.
%u prints an unsigned decimal number.
%D prints an unsigned long decimal number.
.PP
Since
.I jx
uses
.IR sendchar ,
.IR sendnchars ,
and
.IR rcvchar ,
.I jx
programs should avoid these,
and use only the standard I/O routines.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/jerq/include/blitio.h  'u
/usr/jerq/include/jerqio.h
.br
/usr/jerq/include/blitio.h	linked to jerqio.h
.br
/usr/jerq/lib/sysint		standard I/O interpreter
.br
$HOME/.jxout		saved standard output
.br
$HOME/.jxerr		saved standard diagnostic output
.SH BUGS
keyboard standard input doesn't work
