.de m
.if t \{\
.nr N \w'\s24\|\|\\$1'
\(br\|\\$1\|\(br\l'|0\(rn'\l'|0\(ul'\
\s24\v'1m'\
\(br\|\\$1\|\(br\\h'-\\nNu'\l'\\nNu\(rn'\\h'-\\nNu'\l'\\nNu\(ul'\
\v'-1m'\s0 \}
.if n \\$1
..
.TH LENS 1 Blit
.SH NAME
lens \- bitmap
.m magnifier
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lens
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Lens
is an interactive screen bitmap magnifier.
When it
starts, it displays an enlarged image of a magnifying glass in
its layer, which becomes a setting sun when
.I lens
wants to confirm a command to exit.
.PP
Button 1 or the first item in the button 2 menu,
which alternately reads
.I go
and
.I stop,
toggles the presence of
a magnifier.  When the magnifier is present, a rectangle is drawn
around the source, and another around the image.  The mouse controls
the position of the source rectangle.  
.I Bigger
and
.IR smaller ,
on the button 2 menu, step the magnification factor through the
Fibonacci numbers.  If there is insufficient bitmap space,
the image may fail to get bigger.
The initial magnification is a factor of two.
.I New viewer
uses button 3
to sweep a new source rectangle.
.I Freckles
inverts stippling on all layers except that of
.IR lens .
.I Pause
freezes the enlarged image on the screen, and allows other programs
to run.  If the image overlaps any active layer, the screen may become
inconsistent when
.I lens
is restarted.
.I Exit
uses button 3 to confirm.
.SH BUGS
.I Lens
assumes that the enlarged image always fits on the screen.  If not,
distortions may occur in the image as the source moves.

