.TH MPX 1 Blit
.SH NAME
mpx \- layer multiplexor for Blit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mpx
[
terminal program
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mpx
manages asynchronous windows, or layers, on the Blit terminal.
Upon invocation, it loads the Blit with a terminal program
(default /usr/jerq/lib/mpxterm) that is
the primary user interface.
.I Mpx
always invokes
.I 68ld
with its
.B \-e
option for error-correcting down-loading.
.PP
Each layer is in most ways functionally identical to a separate terminal.
Characters typed on the keyboard are sent to the standard input of
the Unix process running in the layer, and characters written on the
standard output appear in the layer.
When a layer is created, a separate shell (sh only)
is established, and bound to the layer.
.PP
Layers are created, deleted, and otherwise dealt with using the mouse on the Blit.
Depressing button 3 activates a menu of layer operations.
Lifting button 3 then selects an operation.
At this point, the rifle sight cursor indicates that an operation is pending.
Hitting button 3 again activates the operation on the layer pointed to by the cursor.
The New operation, to create a layer,
requires a rectangle to be swept out,
across any diagonal, while button 3 is depressed.
The box outline cursor indicates that a rectangle is to be created.
The Reshape operation, to change the size and location of a layer on the screen,
requires first that a layer be indicated (rifle sight cursor) and a new rectangle
be swept out (box cursor).
The Debug operation indicates which layer/process to debug with
.I joff.
The other operations are self-explanatory.
.PP
Button 1 is a shorthand for Current and Top, which pulls a layer to the front
of the screen and makes it the current layer for keyboard input.
Layers which are not current are indicated by being partially obscured
with a stipple pattern.
.SH FILES
/usr/jerq/lib/mpxterm: terminal program
.SH SEE ALSO
68ld(1), jx(1)
.br
A more complete description may be found in the copious unwritten documentation.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Error messages from
.I mpx
are written directly to the layer which caused them.
They are usually self-explanatory only to system administrators,
and indicate system difficulties.
.SH ARCANA
The SET-UP keyboard key freezes
.I mpx
and complements the video of the layer of the running user-level terminal process.
Hitting mouse button 2 in this state will attempt to kill the process;
1 or 3 will leave it running.
.SH BUGS
Under 4.1bsd,
not all ioctl's are supported.  In particular, the C shell
will not run under
.I mpx.
.br
Reshape only works properly for processes that arrange to see if they have
been reshaped.  Currently, only a few programs
make this arrangement.
