.TH MUX 9 Blit
.SH NAME
mux \- layer multiplexer for Blit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mux
[
terminal program
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mux
manages asynchronous windows, or layers, on the Blit terminal.
Upon invocation, it loads the Blit with a terminal program
(default /usr/jerq/lib/muxterm) that is
the primary user interface.
.PP
Each layer is in most ways functionally identical to a separate terminal.
Characters typed on the keyboard are sent to the standard input of
the Unix process running in the layer, and characters written on the
standard output appear in the layer.
When a layer is created, a separate shell
(the value of the
.B SHELL
parameter, or /bin/sh by default)
is established, and bound to the layer.
.PP
Layers are created, deleted, and rearranged using the mouse on the Blit.
Depressing button 3 activates a menu of layer operations.
Lifting button 3 then selects an operation.
At this point, the rifle sight cursor indicates that an operation is pending.
Hitting button 3 again activates the operation on the layer pointed to by the cursor.
The New operation, to create a layer,
requires a rectangle to be swept out,
across any diagonal, while button 3 is depressed.
The box outline cursor indicates that a rectangle is to be created.
The Reshape operation, to change the size and location of a layer on the screen,
requires first that a layer be indicated (rifle sight cursor) and a new rectangle
be swept out (box cursor).
The other operations are self-explanatory.
.PP
Button 1 is a shorthand for Current and Top, which pulls a layer to the front
of the screen and makes it the current layer for keyboard and mouse input.
Layers which are not current are indicated by being partially obscured
with a stipple pattern.
.PP
The default terminal program allows text editing using the mouse, much as in
.IR jim (9),
and all layers share a common snarf buffer (distinct from
.IR jim 's,
however).
There is a point
in each layer, called the 'Unix point', that is the character position where
the next character from Unix will be inserted.  Unlike on a regular terminal,
this point is not advanced as you type characters, but only when you type
a newline.  Therefore, shell prompts and other output will appear at the beginning
of your half-typed line if you type ahead.
.PP
All text on the screen can be edited.  Typing a newline after the Unix point
sends to Unix the characters from the Unix point to the newline.  At no
other time are characters sent to unix (but see the discussion of raw mode
below).  Therefore partially typed lines or text anywhere before the Unix
point may be edited, and text may be copied from place to place,
including between layers.
.PP
Raw mode and no-echo are different: the Unix point advances with each character
typed after it.
.PP
The terminal doesn't scroll automatically
as text is received or typed, but a button 2 menu item selects scrolling.
The scroll bar behaves much like
.IR jim's,
and the NO SCRL key advances a half page.
.SH FILES
/usr/jerq/lib/muxterm: terminal program
.SH SEE ALSO
68ld(9), jim(9), jx(9)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Error messages from
.I mux
are written directly to the layer which caused them.
They are usually self-explanatory only to system administrators,
and indicate system difficulties.
.SH ARCANA
CTRL-SHIFT-BREAK freezes
.I mux
and complements the video of the layer of the running user-level terminal process.
Hitting mouse button 2 in this state will attempt to kill the process;
1 or 3 will leave it running.
.SH BUGS
Reshape only works properly for processes that arrange to see if they have
been reshaped, although most programs
make this arrangement.
.PP
The behavior of raw mode makes
.IR dcon (1)
somewhat uncomfortable.
