.TH PED 1 Blit
.SH NAME
ped  \- point editor for Blit terminals
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ped [file]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ped
is an interactive drawing system for the 
Blit 
bitmap display terminal running under
.I mpx(1).
This page provides only an outline of its functions and
users should consult the complete manual before attempting
any serious work.
.I Ped
uses the mouse for drawing, pointing, and selecting menu actions.
Button 1 selects an action from a menu displayed on the left side of
the screen and it is also used to draw and pick up an object.
Button 3 terminates drawing and also selects from a menu under the
cursor. That selection determines the menu displayed on the left.
Button 2 has only limited functions that are of no
interest to beginners.
.PP
.I ped
runs both on the host and on the blit. When a file is first read it is kept on
the host. It requires user action to bring it to the blit so that
it can be edited (``bring in'' item on the menu).
The ``type comm'' action deactivates the mouse and takes input
from the keyboard which is transmitted directly to the host.
It also makes sure that the host has an exact copy of what is in the blit
before allowing any other action to occur.
The keyboard commands recognized by
.I ped
are
.I "e, f, r, w,"
.I "m, qq,"
.I "pwd,"
and
.I "cd dir."
The first four may take a file name as argument and have similar functions
as in
.I ed(1).
.I m
or an empty line
reactivates the mouse.
.I qq
causes the program to exit. Whenever
.I ped
exits (or is asked to edit a new file), it checks whether the file
has been modified since a previous save, and if it has it writes in
``ped.save.''
.I pwd
and
.I cd
have the same effect  as
.I pwd(1)
and
.I cd(1).
.I ped
files have a format that is similar to display lists.
.PP
There are eight menus that can be selected by button 3:
.de bR
-
..
.bR
.I Basic
which is the same as the one displayed initially.
It includes a
.I blitblt
command that allows you to make hard copies of the blit display
in the same way as
.I blitblt(1)
does.
.bR
.I Ch size
includes changes in the object size, rotations, etc.
.bR
.I Move
includes ``move'', and ``copy'' commands for objects.
.bR
.I Draw
has the object creation actions. Pressing button 1 fixes a point,
while button 3 terminates drawing that particular objects.
It takes two empty lines to terminate input for ``text.''
.bR
.I Reshape
has commands that allow detailed editing of objects.
Some of them, marked with ``(t)'' have a toggle action.
``Formal'' makes all nearly vertical
or nearly horizontal lines of an object vertical or horizontal.
An ``undo'' command can be used to cancel the action of others.
.bR
.I Shade
offers a selection of textures that can be used to fill
polygons.
.bR
.I Remote
allows editing on the host and it is not recommended for beginners.
.PP
As a rule, the program, remembers the last command given and it will
execute it repeatedly, as long as it is meaningful to do so
or until the user makes another selection.
Thus one can fill many polygons with the same texture without
having to select it each time.
.PP
.I ped
uses a lot of space on the blit, so it is unlikely that it could be
loaded if there are many overlapping windows, or there is another big
program (
.I jim(1), joff(1),
for example)
loaded in another layer.
Error messages of the part running on the host
.I (stderr)
are placed in a file called
.I .pederr
in the current directory of the user.
Error messages of the part running on the Blit appear on the screen.
.PP
Hard copies can be made in two ways:
(1) By the ``blitblt'' menu selection. That creates a file
called BLITBLT which can then be printed by the
.I [4]bcan(1)
command.
(2) By a
.I troff(1)
preprocessor called
.I tped(1).
See the respective manual section.
.SH BUGS
.PP
Plots are clipped only with respect to the
.I mpx
window so that may spill over to the menu or message areas.
The only known bugs live in parts of the program
that are of no interest to beginners, and are all benign.
However
since the program has been tested extensively
only by its designer, it is likely that hidden and
vicious bugs exist.
