.TH DIALOUT 3
.SH NAME
dialout \- place call on ACU
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dialout(class, telno)
.br
.B char *class, *telno;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Dialout
searches for an automatic calling unit of the appropriate service class
and places a data call on the associated line, using the given telephone
number.
If successful, it returns an open file descriptor for the line.
The file is in raw mode, and has exclusive-use and hangup-on-close modes set.
It returns \-1 if all ACUs of the given class are busy, \-3 if carrier
could not be set, and \-9 if the service class is unidentifiable.
.PP
The routine consults a data file
.I /etc/aculist
that consists of lines containing six blank- or tab-separated fields.
.TP "\w'postfix 'u"
service class
Each line with a service class matching the one specified is tried
in turn until an unoccupied one is found.
Service classes may be used used to specify a switching system (e.g. Dimension
or Centrex) and speed rate.
.TP
file
The file name of the associated special file for the telephone line.
.TP 
acu
The file name of the associated ACU.
If specified as
.BR none ,
no ACU is used and the telephone number is ignored.
This is for hardwired connections.
.TP
speed
The bit rate of the interface, chosen from the numbers given in ttyld(4).
.TP
prefix
A string to be prefixed to the number.
This is handy for shared ACUs in which the first digit specifies a line.
The prefix
.B \-
is taken to be an empty prefix.
.TP
postfix
A string to be postfixed to the number to be dialled.
Some ACUs require an `end of number' code; it should be specified here.
.SH FILES
/etc/aculist
.SH SEE ALSO
ttyld(4), dn(4), cu(1)
