.TH GETPWENT 3 
.SH NAME
getpw, getpwent, getpwuid, getpwnam, setpwent, endpwent, pwdecode \- get password file entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B getpw(uid, buf)
.B char *buf;
.PP
.B #include <pwd.h>
.PP
.B struct passwd *getpwent()
.PP
.B struct passwd *getpwuid(uid) int uid;
.PP
.B struct passwd *getpwnam(name) char *name;
.PP
.B int setpwent()
.PP
.B int endpwent()
.PP
.B struct passwd *pwdecode(p) char *p;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Getpw
searches the password file for
the (numerical)
.I uid 
and fills in
.I buf
with a corresponding line.
The line is null-terminated.
.PP
.I Getpwent,
.I getpwuid
and
.I getpwnam
each return a pointer to an object with the
following structure
containing the broken-out
fields of a line in the password file.
.RS
.PP
.nf
.so /usr/include/pwd.h
.ft R
.ad
.fi
.RE
.PP
The fields
.I pw_quota
and
.I pw_comment
are unused; the others have meanings described in
.IR passwd (5).
.PP
.I Getpwent
reads the next
line (opening the file if necessary);
.I setpwent
rewinds the file;
.I endpwent
closes it.
.PP
.I Getpwuid
and
.I getpwnam
search from the beginning until a matching
.I uid
or
.I name
is found
(or until EOF is encountered).
.PP
.I Pwdecode 
breaks out a null-terminated character string
.I p
containing a password file entry.
The input string is modified by the call and
the output structure contains pointers into it.
.SH FILES
/etc/passwd
.SH "SEE ALSO"
getlogin(3), getgrent(3), passwd(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I Getpw
returns nonzero for error;
other routines return 0 for end of file or error.
.SH BUGS
All information
is contained in a static area
so it must be copied if it is
to be saved.
