.TH TDKDIAL 3X
.SH NAME
dkdial, dkerror \- open a datakit connection to a remote server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <dk.h>
.PP
.B tdkdial(srvname, traffic)
.br
.B char *srvname;
.PP
.B extern char *dkerror;
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines are loaded by option
.B \-ldk
of
.IR ld (1).
.PP
.I Tdkdial
opens an available datakit channel, and attempts to
connect it to the named server.
The server is told the
.I  srvname
string, the identity of the host computer originating the call, and
the effective userid of the process making the request.
If successful, the file descriptor of the open circuit is returned.
.PP
.I Traffic
type tells the network the characteristics of the
intended traffic on this circuit.
Current defined values are
0 for terminal-like traffic, and 2 for high-speed host-host traffic.
.PP
.I Srvname
consists of a required network destination name,
optionally followed by a period and some arbitrary parameters for the server
being called.
A general destination name has three components, separated by slashes.
The first is an area code (e.g.
.BR mh )
the second is a controller node in that area (e.g.
.BR astro )
the last is a service offered in that node.
A standard service offered by each machine attached to a node is
remote login, and the service name is the same as the machine name
(e.g.
.BR research ).
.PP
The additional information is of limited length, and
should only be used to inform the server what type of session is
desired and what higher level protocol should be used to exchange further
information.
.PP
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/dev/dk 'u
/dev/dk	directory containing files naming each channel
.SH SEE ALSO
dkmgr(3)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Value \-1 returned on error, and pointer to diagnostic message 
stored in 
.I dkerror.
