.TH BLITBLT 9.1
.SH NAME
blitblt \- make hard copy of screen image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR blitblt " [ " \-p
.IR command " ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Blitblt
copies part or all of a jerq screen into a file
or down a pipe to a printer daemon.
The program is menu driven off button 3 as follows:
.nr xx \w'\f3sweep rectangle\f1'u+2n/1n
.TP \n(xx
.B choose layer
A bull's eye cursor appears.
Clicking button 3 with the cursor inside a layer
.RI "(cf. " 3pi (9.1))
selects it for subsequent manipulation.
.TP
.B layer interior
As above, but the border surrounding the layer is not included.
.TP
.B flip border
The border is changed from narrow to wide (or
.IR vice\ versa )
in the selected layer or rectangle.
.TP
.B reverse video
The video is inverted in the selected layer or rectangle.
.TP
.B run/halt
The terminal
process in the selected layer is continued or halted.
This menu entry changes with the layer's status.
.TP
.B sweep rectangle
A rectangle cursor appears.  The rectangle swept out on button 3
becomes the selected area.
.TP
.B whole screen
The entire screen, including border areas, but excluding the
.I blitblt
layer itself, is selected.
.TP
.B write file
The portion of the screen previously selected and prepared is written
into a file or pipe. The filename is typed in answer to a prompt appearing
at the bottom of the
.I blitblt
layer.
Hitting return selects the (default) name in parentheses.
If the first character typed is a `|' (pipe symbol), the remainder of
the line is taken as a shell command which will read the bitmap
on its standard input.
.TP
.BI | " command"
The selected portion of the screen is sent to the
.I command
specified by the
.B \-p
option (default
.IR bcan .)
.TP
.B exit
Must be confirmed by clicking button 3 in response to the skull cursor.
.SH FILES
/usr/jerq/mbin/blitblt.m \- terminal program
.SH SEE ALSO
can(1), bitfile(9.5)
.SH BUGS
Moving layers (e.g. clocks) result in broken images.  Use the
.B halt
function.
.br
If a pipe request fails, the
.I blitblt
layer becomes unusable.
