.TH BLITMAP 9.1 seki
.SH NAME
blitmap \- map plots and path finding on a jerq
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B blitmap
[ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Blitmap
displays maps on the jerq terminal.
It relies on the mouse to select regions, functions, and to give
formats for typed commands.
The metropolitan N.Y.-N.J. area is the default map.
.IR Blitmap's
screen consists of two
.IR frames ,
a large frame for plotting maps and printing messages to the user, and
a one-line command frame at the bottom.
.I Blitmap
recognizes two commands from the keyboard,
to designate a region and to scale or plot a route
from one point to another.
A command may be typed at any time.
.LP
.B Button 3
.TP \w'\fBTo draw map\fP 'u
.B Regions
Select which region to plot.
Available regions are San Francisco, New York City and North Jersey,
Washington, Los Angeles and Ann Arbor.
.TP
.B Zoom-in
Using button 3 and the box icon, enclose the area desired and
.I blitmap
will plot a map of that area
centered at the center of the drawn rectangle.
.TP
.B Zoom-out
Enclose an area with a rectangle and the map shown will be reduced to the
rectangle size and the rest of the map filled in.  The center will be at the center
of the drawn rectangle.
.TP
.B Center
With button 3 point to new center.  The radius will remain the same.
.TP
.B Prev. map
.I Blitmap
plots the previous frame.
.TP
.B To draw map
Gives the format of the command the user types to plot a map.
.TP
.B To find path
Gives the format of the command the user types to find a path.
.TP
.B Quit
Must be confirmed
.LP
.B Button 2
.br
Button 2 controls map editing functions.
No editing is actually done, but
by using
the
.B \-f
option, a file
of changes will be written, which may be added to the actual database. 
.LP
.B Keyboard
.ns
.TP
[\-options ...] \fBradius\fP address[,town or zip]
.I Blitmap
plots an area with the given radius in miles around the
.I address.
.TP
\fBpath\fP [\-options ...] \fBfrom\fP address \fBto\fP address[,town or zip]
A  route is outlined on a map and printed
directions are given from point to point.
.PP
.I Address
may be a number and street or an intersection such as, `main and 10th' or `600
Mountain av,new providence.'
The options specify the algorithm of the path search and plotting choices. The
plotting options may be used with both commands.
.LP
.B Path finding options
.TP
.B \-2
Two ended search (default).
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-1
One way search.
.TP
.B \-b
Breadth search.
.TP
.B \-C
Cyclists \- ignore costs for turns.
.TP
.B \-F
Stop at first route connect with breadth search.
.TP
.B \-H
Hierarchical search.(Give priority to database with major roads.)
.TP
.B \-G
In breadth search, ignore ones whose cost + dist >4/3 total airline distance.
.TP
.B \-J
Use precomputed routes. (Available from 600 mountain av,New Providence.)
.TP
.B \-V
Verbose directions (all intersections given).
.TP
.B \-W
Walkers \- no cost for turns and ignore one-way streets.
.PD
.LP
.B Plotting options
.TP
.B \-A
Print every possible label.
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-B
Print business names.
.TP
.B \-MI\fRx\fP
Forces a detailed street plot for maps whose radius is greater than 10,000 ft.
.TP
.B \-b
Don't print boundaries.
.TP
.B \-i\fRx\fP
Plot only streets with importance >x; x=0 is default.
.TP
.B \-j
Do sketch map only.
.TP
.B \-l
Don't print labels.
.TP
.B \-r
Don't print railroads.
.TP
.B \-s
Don't print streets.
.TP
.B \-w
Don't print waterways.
.PD
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/n/seki/usr/rje/BLIT/term/term    'u
/n/seki/usr/rje/BLIT/term/term     terminal support program
.br
/n/seki/m?/map/*	map files
.SH BUGS
Since the data bases have not been checked and many streets are not connected,
some paths may be circuitous.  There are no connecting roads
from N.J into N.Y or from Middlesex county into Union. The routing programs
will churn, trying to find a through street and will not give up. There are
no one-way street tags on the streets.
.I Blitmap
does not know if it has been reshaped.

