.TH JX 9.1
.SH NAME
jx \- jerq execution and stdio interpreter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jx
file
[ arguments ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Jx
downloads the program in
.I file
to the jerq or layer on its controlling tty
and runs it there, simulating standard I/O functions of
.IR stdio (3).
.I Jx
works either stand-alone or in a layer.
.PP
.I Stdout
and
.I stderr,
if directed to the controlling terminal, will be squirreled away during
execution to be cat'ed after the terminal program has
been rebooted.
.PP
Programs to be run by
.I jx
should include <jerqio.h>
and call exit() upon termination in order to
restart the default terminal program.
Programs to be run stand-alone
should be compiled with
the
.I \-J
option of
.IR 3cc (9.1).
No special options are required for running in a layer.
.PP
Stdio functions available under
.I jx
are
.IP
.ta 6m +6m +6m +6m +6m +6m
getc	putc	fopen	popen	printf	fread
.br
getchar	putchar	freopen	pclose	sprintf	fwrite
.br
fgets	puts	fclose		fprintf
.br
	fputs	access
.br
	fflush
.br
.PP
Unlike in
.IR stdio (3S),
.I getc
and
.I putc
are functions, not macros.
.I Printf
has only %d, %s, %c, %o and %x.
%u prints an unsigned decimal number.
%D prints an unsigned long decimal number.
.PP
Since
.I jx
uses
.IR sendchar ,
.IR sendnchars ,
and
.IR rcvchar ,
.I jx
programs should avoid these,
and use only the standard I/O routines.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/jerq/include/blitio.h  'u
/usr/jerq/include/jerqio.h
.br
/usr/jerq/lib/sysint		standard I/O interpreter
.br
$HOME/.jxout		saved standard output
.br
$HOME/.jxerr		saved standard diagnostic output
.SH SEE ALSO
request(9.2)
.SH BUGS
Keyboard standard input doesn't work; use
.IR kbdchar (9.2).
.br
Stand-alone programs do not receive arguments.

