.TH MUX 9.1
.SH NAME
mux, ismux, invert \- layer multiplexer for jerq
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mux
[
.B \-l
commands ]
.PP
.B mux exit
.PP
.B mux cd
directory
.PP
.B ismux
[
.B \-
]
.PP
.B invert
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mux
manages asynchronous windows, or layers, on the jerq terminal.
Upon invocation, it loads the jerq with a 
program
(default
.IR /usr/jerq/lib/muxterm ,
settable by the environment variable
MUXTERM)
that is
the primary user interface.
Option
.B \-l
also creates a layer and invokes the shell to run
.I commands
in it.
(See
.IR windows (9.1)).
.PP
The command `mux exit' leaves
.I mux,
destroying all layers;
`mux cd' changes the directory of
.IR mux ,
and hence of layers later created,
but not of the current layers.
.PP
Each layer is essentially a separate terminal.
Characters typed into the layer are sent to the standard input of
a Unix process bound to the layer, and characters written on the
standard output of that process appear in the layer.
When a layer is created, a separate shell
(the value of the
SHELL
environment variable, or
.I sh
by default)
is established, and bound to the layer.
.PP
Layers are created, deleted, and rearranged using the mouse.
Depressing mouse button 3 activates a menu of layer operations.
Releasing button 3 then selects an operation.
At this point, a gunsight cursor indicates that an operation is pending.
Hitting button 3 again activates the operation on the layer pointed to by the cursor.
The New operation, to create a layer,
requires a rectangle to be swept out,
across any diagonal, while button 3 is depressed.
A box outline cursor indicates that a rectangle is to be created.
The Reshape operation, to change the size and location of a layer on the screen,
requires first that a layer be indicated (gunsight cursor) and a new rectangle
be swept out (box cursor).
The other operations are self-explanatory.
.PP
In a non-current layer,
button 1 is a shorthand for Current and Top, which pulls a layer to the front
of the screen and makes it the current layer for keyboard and mouse input.
Non-current layers are indicated by a light border.
.PP
There is a point
in each layer, called the `Unix point', where
the next character from Unix will be inserted.
The Unix point advances whenever characters
are received from Unix, but not when echoing typed characters.
When a newline is typed after the Unix point,
characters between the Unix point and the newline,
inclusive, are sent to Unix and the
Unix point advanced to after the newline.
This means that
shell prompts and other output will be inserted before
characters that have been typed ahead.
No other characters are sent to Unix (but see the discussion of raw mode
below).
Therefore partially typed lines or text anywhere before the Unix
point may be edited.
.PP
The default terminal program allows any text on the screen to be edited,
much as in
.IR jim (9.1).
Text may be selected by sweeping it with button 1 depressed.
Typed characters replace selected text.
.PP
All layers share a common `snarf buffer' (distinct from
.IR jim 's).
The
.B cut
operation on button 2 deletes selected text and puts it
in the buffer;
.B snarf
copies selected text to the buffer;
.B paste
replaces selected text (which may be null) from the buffer; and
.B send
copies the snarf buffer to after the Unix point.
.PP
Normally the terminal doesn't scroll 
as text is received, but a button 2 menu item selects scrolling.
A scroll bar indicates what portion of all the text stored
for a layer is on the screen.
(It measures characters, not lines.)
Releasing button 1 in the scroll bar brings the line at the top
of the screen to the cursor;
releasing button 3 takes the line at the cursor
to the top of the screen.
Button 2, treating the scroll bar as a ruler, brings the indicated
point in the whole stored text to the top of the screen.
.PP
The NUM LOCK key advances a half page.
.PP
.I Ismux
reports on its standard error whether its standard output is a
.I mux
layer, and also generates the appropriate exit status.
With the optional argument, no message is produced.
.PP
.I Invert
reverses the sense of video, from black on white to
white on black, or
.I vice
.IR versa .
.PP
Independent user-level programs can be loaded into layers, see
.IR 32ld (9.1).
SHIFT-SETUP freezes
.I mux
and complements the video of the layer of the running user-level terminal process.
Hitting button 2 in this state will attempt to kill the process;
1 or 3 will leave it running.
.PP
In raw mode or no-echo mode (see
.IR ttyld (4))
the Unix point advances with each character
typed after it.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/jerq/lib/muxterm'u+1m
/usr/jerq/lib/muxterm	terminal program
.br
/tmp/.mux*	temporary file used by
.B \-l
option
.SH SEE ALSO
32ld(9.1), jim(9.1), jx(9.1), term(9.1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I Mux
refuses to create a layer when there is not enough memory.
Space can be recovered by deleting a layer.
.br
Error messages from
.I mux
are written directly to the layer which caused them.
They are usually meaningful only to system administrators,
and indicate system difficulties.
.SH BUGS
Reshape only works properly for processes that arrange to see if they have
been reshaped, although most programs
make this arrangement.
.br
The behavior of raw mode prohibits editing
partially typed lines when running
.IR cu (1).
