.TH PADS 9.5
.SH NAME
pads \- user interface package
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Pads
is a user interface package for browser-like applications.
Interaction with its multiple windows is modeled after
.IR jim (9.1).
.PP
.B Mouse
.br
The left button points.
Pointing at a window makes it current, with a heavy border;
pointing at a line makes it current, inverts its video,
and moves it to the middle of the window.
The scroll bar at the left of each window shows how
much of the text of a window is visible;
pointing into the scroll region controls what text is displayed.
The middle button menu has operations that apply to the current line.
Operations above the ~~~~~ separator are specific to each line;
operations below the separator are generic line operations:
.TP 0.75i
.B cut
removes the line.
.TP
.B sever
removes the line and all lines above it.
.TP
.B fold 
folds a line that is wider than its window, so all of it appears.
.TP
.B truncate
truncates a wide line at the right, so it occupies only one physical line.
.LP
The right button menu has window-level operations, and is in three parts.
Below the lower separator is a list of all the available windows;
selecting one makes it current.
They appear in front-to-back screen order, current at the top.
Operations above the upper separator are specific to each window;
operations between the separators are generic window operations:
.TP 1.5i
.B reshape, move, close
the usual.
.TP
.B fold, truncate
apply to all the lines in the window.
.LP
.PP
.B Keyboard
.br
Keyboard characters accumulate at the bottom of the layer.
If the current line accepts input, it flashes with each keystroke;
otherwise, if the current window accepts input, its border flashes.
Carriage return is ignored until a line or window
accepts the text, whereupon
the input line is sent to the line or window.
The ESC key substitutes the
.IR mux (9.1)
global snarf buffer.
If the first character of a line from the keyboard is <,
the remainder is interpreted as a shell command;
each line of its standard output is sent to the line or window.
Each line or window that accepts keyboard input produces
some help in response to ?.
.PP
.B Cursor Icons
.TP 1.5i
.B arrow-dot-dot-dot
the host is completing an operation; the terminal is ready
.I asynchronously.
.TP
.B exclamation mark
confirm a dangerous menu selection by pressing that menu's button again.
.PP
.B The Hard Part
.br
Remember that the middle button operates on lines and the right button
operates on windows.
In many cases, both menus are useful, but you can see only one at a time.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.I Pads Programming Guide
by T. A. Cargill
