.TH PAINT 9.1
.SH NAME
paint \- draw pictures in a layer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B paint
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Paint
is a more elaborate relation of
.IR twid (9.6).
.PP
Button 3 gets a menu.
Certain menu items contain arrows, which if touched call submenus.
Moving off the right of a submenu causes it to disappear.
Pressing button 1 while holding button 3 gets a short help
message for the menu item.
The top-level menu contains:
.PP
.nf
.ta \w'Line style 'u +.5i
Style	\(->	Different kinds of brushstrokes
Operation	\(->	Ways of putting paint on canvas
Texture	\(->	Things to do to the texture pattern
Brush	\(->	Things to do to the paintbrush
Canvas	\(->	Things to do to the whole picture
State	\(->	Change things saved in \fI.paintstate\fP
Fill		Fill an area of the picture
Green		Erase the entire picture
Mask		Display mask instead of image; `*' means mask
Exit		Leave the paint program
.fi
.PP
The
.I Style
submenu adjusts `brushstrokes':
.PP
.nf
Paint		Multiple brushspots while holding button 1 or 2
Circles		Rubberband circles; press at center and release at circumference
Lines		Rubberband brush lines
Curves		Continuous strokes while holding button 1 or 2
Line style	\(->	Solid, dotted, dashed, etc. lines
.fi
.PP
Entries in the
.I Line Style
sub-submenu are strings of `A's, `B's and `.'s that
describe dotted and dashed lines.
`A' stands for the brush on the button pushed,
`B' stands for the brush on the other button; `.' for
no brush at all.
The string is cycled through at successive points when drawing
.I Lines, Curves,
or
.I Circles.
Thus `A' means a solid line, `A...' means a 1 in 4 dotted
line, and `AAAA....' means 4-point dashes.
.PP
The
.I Operation
submenu assigns a pair of operations, one for each of buttons 1 and 2,
to be performed as the brush is laid down.
A hidden `mask' plane describes the shape that has been painted;
black pixels in the mask are inside, green outside.
Likewise, the brush
consists of a pair of rectangular image and mask planes.
There are 11 effective operations to combine the part of the brush
inside its mask
with the part of the picture it sits on (see
the Porter/Duff paper for details); selected pairs can be assigned to the
buttons:
.PP
.nf
.ta \w'Line style 'u+.5i
Above/Erase	Button 1 paints on top, Button 2 erases
Below/Erase	Button 1 paints behind, Button 2 erases
Above/Below	Button 1 paints on top, Button 2 behind
Inside/Erase	Button 1 paints inside, Button 2 erases
Brush/Clear	Special effects A, CLEAR
AoutB/AinB	Special effects
BinA/BatopA	Special effects
Xor/Above	Special effects
.fi
.PP
.I Above
paints on top of the picture.
This is the operation
performed by `normal' paint programs.
.PP
.I Below
paints underneath; it will show
through only in places that were not previously covered.
.PP
.I Inside
paints on top, but only inside the already-painted part.
.PP
The other 7 operations are best described as `special effects'.
Try them out
to see what they do, or look at the Porter/Duff paper.
.PP
.I Texture
facilities paint with a repeating 16\(mu16 pattern instead of copies of
a brush.
The
.I Texture
menu contains:
.PP
.nf
.ta \w'Line style 'u +.5i
Texture		Turn texturing on or off; `*' means on
Make		Pick a texture from the picture
Negate		Reverse the texture's green and black
Save		Name a texture and copy it into a file
Library	\(->	List and and retrieve textures in library
Get		Type a name and get a texture from a file
.fi
.PP
.I Make
gives a 16\(mu16 square cursor with which to pick
a texture.
.PP
The
.I Brush
submenu contains Make, Negate, Save, Library, and Get, which
do for brushes what the same items do for textures.
.PP
.I Make
allows you to sweep out a region to use as a brush.
.PP
The
.I Canvas
submenu also contains Negate, Save, Library, and Get, in this
case pertaining to entire pictures.
.PP
Library pictures
are saved in a file containing the image plane then the
mask plane in
.IR bitfile (9.5)
format.
.PP
The file
.I .paintstate
in the current directory remembers
across invocations of
.I paint
the names of the current brush, texture,
and libraries.
The
.I State
submenu displays the library names at the bottom
of the layer, where they can be edited:
.PP
.nf
.ta \w'Line style 'u+.5i
Brushes	Name the brush directory
Pictures	Name the picture directory
Textures	Name the texture directory
.fi
.PP
The
.I Fill
menu item gives an arrowhead cursor.
If you touch down at a point not painted, the rookwise-connected
region containing it will fill with black.
On completion, the
black will be replaced by the current texture.
While the region is filling, any button click aborts the operation.
.PP
The current selections from the
.IR Brush ,
.IR Library ,
.IR Style ,
.IR Operation ,
.IR Texture ,
and
.I Line Style
menus are marked with a `*', and are displayed in the information box
at the bottom of the layer.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/jerq/paint/brush  'u
/usr/jerq/paint/brush	the default brush library
.br
/usr/jerq/paint/tex	the default texture library
.br
\&.paintstate	state of terminated program
.SH SEE ALSO
can(1), bitfile(9.5), twid(9.6)
.br
Thomas Porter and Tom Duff,
`Compositing Digital Images,'
Siggraph '84 Proceedings
.SH BUGS
The menu entries should be in lower case.
