.TH PED 9.1
.SH NAME
ped, tped \- picture editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ped
[ 
.B \-f
]
[ file ] ...
.PP
.B tped
[ option ] ...
[ file ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ped
is an interactive drawing program for 
jerq terminals.
A
.I file
argument is equivalent to
an `e' command as described below.
Most features of 
.I ped
are menu-controlled and self-explanatory; further details
are in the reference.
.PP
Button 1 is used to select actions
from a permanent menu and to draw or pick up an object.
Button 3 is used to terminate drawing actions and to change
the permanent menu.
Button 2 causes the permanent menu to revert to `basic'.
.PP
The operation of
.I ped
is split between host and terminal.
When a file is first read, it is kept on
the host; `bring in' gets it to the 5620.
.PP
Option
.B \-f
causes
.I ped
to display all text in one size to save time and space.
.PP
Permanent menus selected by button 3 follow.
Actions marked `(t)' in the menu toggle on and off. 
The last action is usually remembered and may be
executed repeatedly
until another is selected.
Thus, for example, one can fill many polygons with
one button click per polygon.
.TP
Basic
is the initial menu.
`blitblt', like
.IR blitblt (9.1),
copies part of the screen to file `BLITBLT', for display
on a laser printer by
.I bcan;
see
.IR can (9.1).
`Exit' requires a confirming push of button 3.
`Markers' makes visible the defining points of objects;
in circles and text, these
are the only points sensitive to selection by button 1.
.IP
`Type comm' deactivates the mouse and takes input
from the keyboard.
The keyboard commands follow.
The first four behave like similarly named commands in
.IR ed (1),
using a remembered name when none is given.
.RS
.TP
.BI e " f"
edit a new picture from file
.IR f ;
remember its name.
.PD 0
.TP
.BI f " f"
Change the remembered name to 
.I f
and report the new remembered name.
.TP
.BI r " f"
Read file 
.I f
into 
.I ped.
.TP
.BI w  " f"
Write the current picture onto file
.I f.
.TP
.BI u " string"
Use
.I string
as a shell command to be applied when the menu selection
.I user
.I oper
is made later.
The
.I string
is remembered.
.TP
.BI cd " d"
Change working directory to
.IR d ;
like
.I cd
in
.IR sh (1).
.TP
.B pwd
Print working directory; like
.IR pwd (1).
.TP
<newline>
.PD 0
.TP
.B m
Reactivate mouse.
.TP
.B qq
Quit; same as `exit' in basic menu.
.PD
.PP
If `e' or `qq' happens when the picture has been changed since
the last `w', the picture is saved in file `ped.save'.
.RE
.TP
Ch size
includes changes in object size, rotations, etc.
`Rotate' displays a vector from a center of an object to the
designated point.
Then the object is rotated and scaled to bring that point to
a second designated position.
`H-elong' and `V-elong' change aspect ratios; they are inverses.
.TP
Move
includes `move', and `copy' commands for objects.
Button 3 cancels a move or copy.
To help untangle overlapping objects, the cancellation
of a move does not take place until returning to the basic menu.
`Attach' moves an open polygon (a broken line)
and hooks it to the end of another.
`Join' connects the ends of two polygons.
`Link' causes multiple polygons to move as one and
to be filled as one (useful for making holes).
Mutually linked polygons must all be open or all be closed.
`Match' moves objects to bring designated points together;
`center' brings the centers of their bounding boxes together.
.TP
Draw
creates objects.
Button 1 fixes a point;
button 3 terminates an object.
`Text' objects may occupy several lines; an empty line
terminates text.
`Grid' causes points to snap to locations on
a grid, which indexes through settings FMC (fine, medium, coarse).
`Fix sz' sets option
.BI \- f .
`Family' designates objects to be moved or deleted together.
A family is defined by drawing a box around it in the draw
menu or by pointing to its members in the move menu.
.TP
Reshape
for editing objects.
`Formal' adjusts nearly vertical
or horizontal lines in an object to be truly vertical or horizontal.
`Spline' produces a curve guided by a polygon.
`Corner' toggles a point of a spline to be multiple \- a corner
in an otherwise smooth curve.
.TP
Refine
has additional editing commands.
`Adj t', with settings LRC, causes text items to be left-justified,
centered, or right-justified on a point.
`Edit text' displays text at the top, where button 1 selects a character
position for inserting by typing or deleting by backspacing.
Button 3 concludes the editing.
`User oper' applies a user-specified command to the selected object.
.TP
Shade
provides textures for filling polygons, circles, or spline-bounded regions.
Curves are filled schematically on the 5620, but accurately on
the host.
.TP
Color
has no effect on the jerq,
but is carried through for display on other devices.
.TP
Remote
performs all editing on the host using the jerq
as a display device only.
.PP
.I Tped
is a filter to convert files of graphic information produced by
.I ped
into typesetting requests for
.IR troff (1).
The options are:
.TP
.BI \-T dev
Prepare output for particular devices known to 
.IR troff :
.B \-Taps
or
.BR \-T202 .
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-b
Place a box around each picture.
.PD
.PP
The input may be straight 
.I ped 
output or may be arbitrary text files with
.I ped
output embedded between
pairs of delimiting lines:
.IP
.nf
\&.GS [ size ]
ped file
\&.GE
.fi
.PP
The optional size specification gives width or height in the form
.BI w= inches
or
.BI h= inches.
The 
.I ped
text may be in another file:
.IP
\&.GS [ size ] pedfilename
.SH SEE ALSO
T. Pavlidis,
.I PED Users Manual,
AT&T Bell Laboratories Computing Science Technical Report No. 110, March 1984
.br
blitblt(9.1), can(1),
pic(1), ideal(1), troff(1), doctype(1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I Ped
error messages from the host
are placed in file
`.pederr'.
Error messages from the terminal appear on the screen.
.SH BUGS
Pictures may spill into the menu or message areas.
.br
Some experimentation with
.I tped
printout parameters
is needed to
obtain satisfactory results.
