.TH PROOF 9.1
.SH NAME
proof \- troff output interpreter for jerq
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B proof
[
.BR \-f fonts
]
[ file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Proof
reads
.IR troff (1)
intermediate language output from
.I file
and displays a simulation of the resulting pages on the screen.
If no file name is given and the standard input is the terminal,
proof terminates immediately leaving a `proof layer',
otherwise it reads the standard input.
By invoking 
.I proof
in a proof layer you can avoid download time.
.PP
Fonts are loaded as required.
The default font is used for unknown fonts.
The font option can be used to preload fonts.
Use the names of the fonts relative to
.I /usr/jerq/font 
separated by commas.
The most-used fonts are `\-fR.10,I.10,S.10'.
.PP
After a layer's worth of text is displayed,
.I proof
pauses for a command.
Commands may come from the host, the keyboard, or 
the button 3 menu.
The typed versions of commands are:
.TP
<newline>
Go on to next portion of text.
(Button 3 equivalent: `more'.)
.TP
q
Quit, leaving a proof layer.
.TP
x
Exit and restart the regular terminal program.
(Equivalent to `q' followed by
.IR jterm (9.1).)
.TP
.BI p n
Print page
.I n.
An out-of-bounds page number means the end nearer to that number;
a missing number means page 0;
a signed number means an offset to the current page.
.PP
Button 1 gets a scroll box, which represents a full page of text.
An interior rectangle shows what part of the page is now visible.
The interior rectangle moves with the mouse, causing the layer to
scroll both vertically and horizontally.
Button 2 gets a speedometer.
The bar of the speedometer moves with the mouse
to control the rate at which new information is displayed.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/jerq/font/.missing  'u
/usr/jerq/font/*		fonts
.br
/usr/jerq/font/.missing	list of referenced but unconverted fonts
.SH SEE ALSO
d202(1), font(7)
.br
`A Typesetter-independent Troff,' Brian W. Kernighan
.SH BUGS
There is a maximum number of fonts (currently 50) that can be loaded
at once.
.br
Windowing can get confused if the
.I troff
ouput is not approximately
sorted in ascending
.IR y -order.
.br
A proof layer imitates
.I term
.IR 33 (9.1),
not 
.IR mux (9.1).
