.TH THINKBLT 9.1
.SH NAME
thinkblt, think \- print on ThinkJet
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR thinkblt " [ "
.IR stream " ]"
.LP
.BR think " [ " \-o
.IR stream " ] [ " files... " ]"
.LP
.BR "nroff \-Tthink" " ... " "| think" " [ " \-o
.IR stream " ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Thinkblt
downloads an interrupt driver for the printer, provides a menu of
operations for printing various data residing in the terminal, and
sets up a
.I stream
($HOME/.THINK by default) on which
.I think
can print data from the host.
It is intended to be down-loaded
once per terminal session.
Most of the menu items are identical to
those of
.IR blitblt (9.1).
The remaining ones are:
.nr xx \w'\f3print mux buffer\f1'u+2n/1n
.TP \n(xx
.B print bitmap
prints whatever bitmap is currently selected, in analogy to
.IR blitblt (9.1).
The widest printable bitmap is 640 pixels across.
.TP
.B print mux buffer
prints the mux `snarf' buffer.
.TP
.B reset printer
sends `<esc>E'.
.PP
While the printer is operating, a different menu
allows one to abort or pause the print operation.
The
printer has a fairly large internal buffer, so response may be
slow.
.PP
Files on the host may be printed by giving them as arguments or standard input to
.IR think .
When used with
.IR nroff ,
names like \e(\(fme may be used to access the special characters
provided by the hardware; see the
.IR nroff (1)
terminal driving file for a complete list.
Both
.IR nroff "(1) and " pr (1)
will paginate properly if top-of-form is set so that the paper tear is aligned
flush with the top of the metal clip which holds the absorber.
.SH FILES
/usr/jerq/mbin/thinkblt.m \- terminal program
.br
/usr/lib/term/tab.think \- nroff descriptor file
.SH SEE ALSO
troff(1), pr(1), blitblt(9.1)
.SH BUGS
The 5620 ROM program is unable to cope with interrupts from the printer;
it is therefore necessary to download
.IR mux (9.1)
before powering on the printer.
.LP
.I Thinkblt
substitutes its own interrupt routine for the (trivial) one provided by
.IR mux (9.1).
The latter is restored upon exit, but havoc may result if the
.I thinkblt
layer is simply deleted.
.LP
The special
.IR nroff (1)
character names are not currently supported by any other device.
