.TH AS 1 
.SH NAME
as \- assembler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B as
[option ] ... [ name ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I As
assembles the named files, or the standard input if no file name is specified.
The options are:
.TP
.BI \-d n
Specifies the number of bytes
.I n
(1, 2, or 4) to be assembled for offsets
which involve forward or external references, and which have sizes unspecified
in the assembly language.
Default is 
.B \-d4.
.TP
.B \-L
Save defined labels beginning with a `L', which are normally discarded
to save space in the resultant symbol table.
The compilers generate such temporary labels.
.TP
.B \-V
Use virtual memory for intermediate storage, rather than a temporary file.
.TP
.B \-W
Do not complain about errors.
.TP
.B \-J
Use long branches to resolve jumps when byte-displacement branches are
insufficient.  This must be used when a compiler-generated assembly contains
branches of more than 32k bytes.
.TP
.B \-R
Make initialized data segments read-only, by concatenating them to
the text segments.
This obviates the need to run editor scripts on assembly
code to make initialized data read-only and shared.
.TP
.B \-t
Specifies a directory to receive the temporary file, other than
the default /tmp.
.TP
.BI \-o obj
Place output in file
.I obj.
Default is `a.out'.
.PP
All undefined symbols in the assembly
are treated as global.
.SH FILES
.ta 1.5i
/tmp/as\(**	default temporary file
.br
a.out		default object file
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ld(1),
nm(1),
adb(1),
pi(9.1),
a.out(5)
.br
Auxiliary documentation
.I Assembler Reference Manual.
.SH BUGS
.B \-J
should be eliminated; the assembler should automatically choose among
byte, word and long branches.
