.TH CALENDAR 1 
.SH NAME
calendar \- reminder service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B calendar
[
.B \-
]
[ n ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Calendar 
consults calendar files
and prints out lines that contain today's date or
any date up through the
.IR n th
working day hence
.RI ( n =1
by default).
Most American-style month-day dates such as `Dec. 7,'
`december 7,' `12/7,' etc., are recognized, but not
`7/12'.
The symbol `*' denotes every month as in `* 7' or `*/7'.
A year may follow the day, as in `Dec 7, 84', `Dec 7 1984',
or `12/7/84'.
.PP
By default, the program consults the file `calendar'
in the $HOME directory (see
.IR sh (1)),
or in the current directory if a home directory is not known.
Other calendar files to be consulted may be specified by lines
of the form
.IP
\fB#include "\fRfile\^\fB"
.LP
in the calendar file.
Includes do not nest.
.PP
When 
the `\-' argument is present,
.I calendar
reminds all users of their calendar engagements by
.IR mail (1).
Normally this happens daily in the wee hours under control of
.IR cron (8).
Calendars not in home directories, or recipients not registered
as users, may be registered
for reminder service by placing lines of the form
`pathname mailname' in file /usr/lib/calendar.
.SH FILES
calendar files
.br
/usr/lib/calendar
.br
/etc/passwd
.br
/tmp/cal*
.br
egrep, echo, join, sort, sed, mail, /usr/lib/calendar?	subprocesses
.SH "SEE ALSO"
at(1)
.SH BUGS
The mail reminder service doesn't work when 
it finds less than two calendars.
.br
Your calendar must be public information for you
to get reminder service.
.br
Holidays are what the program says they are.
