.TH CAN 1 
.SH NAME
can, bcan, dcan, tcan, xcan \- interface to Canon laser-printer spooler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B can
[ option ... ] [ file ... ]
.PP
.B bcan
[ option ... ] [ file ... ]
.PP
.B dcan
[ option ... ] [ file ... ]
.PP
.B tcan
[ option ... ] [ file ... ]
.PP
.B xcan
[ option ... ] [ file ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
These commands print 
.I files
(standard input by default) on Canon laser printers.
Four commands, all special cases of the generic
.I xcan,
handle particular kinds of data files:
.TP
.I can
ASCII text
.TP
.I bcan
bitmap images created by 
.IR blitblt (9.1)
.TP
.I dcan
output from
.IR troff (1)
.TP
.I tcan
output for a Tektronix 4014 terminal, as produced by
.IR plot (1)
.PP
The destination printer is determined in the following ways,
listed in order of decreasing precedence.
Printer names are given in
.IR candest (7).
.IP
option
.B \-d
.I dest
.br
environment variable CANDEST
.br
printer named in file /etc/candest
.PP
Options:
.PP
.TP "\w'\f3\-d \f2dest\f1'u+1m"
.BI \-d " dest"
select the destination printer, see
.IR candest (7).
.TP
.BI \-f " font"
set the font (default CW.11) for
.I can,
see 
.IR font (7).
.TP
.B \-L
(landscape) rotate
.I bcan 
pages 90 degrees.
.TP
.BI \-l " n"
set number of lines per page for
.I can
(default 66).
.TP
.BI \-m " n"
set 
.I bcan
magnification
(default 2).
.TP
.B \-n
spool only, input has already been formatted by a remote
.IR xcan .
.TP
.BI \-o " list"
print only pages whose page numbers appear in
the comma-separated
.I list
of numbers and ranges.
A range
.IR n \- m " means pages " n " through "
.IR m "; a range " \-n " means from the beginning to page " n ;
a range
.I n\-
means from page
.I n
to the end. 
.B \-o
implies
.BR \-r .
.TP
.B \-r
print
pages in reverse order
(default for 
.IR can " and " dcan ).
.TP
.B \-sb
.RI "make " xcan " expect " bcan " input;"
.BR \-sb " implies defaults of " \-x "176 and " \-y 96.
.TP
.B \-sc
.RI "make " xcan " expect " can " input;"
.BR \-sc " does not imply " \-r .
.TP
.B \-sd
.RI "make " xcan " expect " dcan " input;"
.BR \-sd " does not imply " \-r .
.TP
.B \-st
.RI "make " xcan " expect " tcan " input."
.TP
.BI \-t " n"
.I tcan 
scale factor is
.RI ( n /100)/( n %100).
The default is 813, i.e., 13 tekpoints become 8 dots on the laser printer.
.TP
.BI \-u " user"
set the name which appears on the banner page;
default is login name.
.TP
.BI \-x " n"
set the horizontal
offset of the print image, measured in dots (default 48).
There are 240 dots to the inch.
.TP
.BI \-y " n"
set the vertical
offset of the print image (default 0),
except in
.I tcan,
where this option specifies
.I n
extra tekpoints vertically.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/spool/jpd  'u
/etc/candest	default destination
.br
/usr/can/font	font directory
.br
/usr/spool/jpd	spool directory
.SH SEE ALSO
blitblt(9.1), plot(1), pr(1), revpag(1), troff(1), candest(7), font(7)
.SH BUGS
The `landscape' option is supported only by
.IR bcan ;
.BR \-o " and " \-r
are supported only by
.I can
and
.I dcan.
.br
There ought to be a way to determine the service class from the input data.
