.TH CB 1 
.SH NAME
cb, pp \- C program beautifier and pretty printer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cb
[ option ] ...
[ file ] ...
.PP
.B pp
[ option ] ... [ file ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cb
reads C programs either from the named
.I files
or from the
standard input
and writes them
on the standard output with spacing and indentation
that displays the structure of the code.
The options are:
.TP
.B \-s
place newlines as in
Kernighan and Ritchie.
(Original newlines are preserved by default.)
.TP
.B \-j
join split lines.
.TP
.BI \-l " leng"
split lines that are longer than
.I leng.
.PP
.I Pp
formats the named C source files, or its standard input
if none are given,
and writes a `publication format' on the standard output for
printing on a typesetter with filters like
.IR d202 (1).
The options are
.TP
.BI \-T dev
prepare output for devices named as in
.IR troff (1);
default is 202
.TP
.B \-b
use bold fonts suffixed `K' rather than `B'
.TP
.BI \-f font
set the main font; the default is MM, Memphis Medium
.TP
.BI \-k file
cause words in the named file, one per line, to be recognized
as keywords;
the file will be looked up in /usr/lib/pp if it is
not in the current directory
.TP
.BI \-t title
generate a title page with the title specified and a
date stamp
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I Pp
complains and exits if it cannot find a required font.
If this happens, take the name of the missing font to
a local font guru.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
pr(1), troff(1), d202(1), dcan(1), etc.
.br
B. W. Kernighan and D. M. Ritchie,
.I "The C Programming Language,"
Prentice-Hall, 1978.
.SH BUGS
Punctuation hidden in
preprocessor statements causes
.I cb
to make indentation errors.
