.TH CITE 1
.UC 4
.SH NAME
cite \- process citations in a document
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cite
[
-s
]
[
-u
]
[
document
...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cite
is a troff preprocessor used to process forward and backward references in
a document.
Lines processed by
.I cite
can be either of the form
.br
.sp
\& .CD "key" "definition"
.br
.sp
or
.br
.sp
\& .CU "key"text
.br
.sp
where key is an arbitrary name for the citation, and definition is what to print
when the .CU macro is later called.
The text following the key in the .CU macro can be any text desired, and it
will immediately follow the definition.
.PP
In the case of forward references, the program will have no internal definition.
Therefore, the program will output the line without the internal definition,
assuming that later the definition will be provided.
In these cases, because it is impossible to output the definition, ZZ will be
placed on the output followed by the additional text.
When this definition is entered, the program outputs a line to standard error
that gives the information on the label;
if these definitions are included in the text file and troff is run again on
the file, the forward references will have the necessary data.
.PP
If -s is an argument to the program, it will do more extensive error checking and
sort and print the definitions at the end of the program.
If -u is an argument to the program, it will place on stderr a list of all
citations that are either undefined or unused.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
Input:
.br
.in 1i
Chapter
.br
\& .CU "TYPES, OPERATORS AND EXPRESSIONS"
.br
deals with the basic data types, operators and expressions.
.br
.br
\& .CD "TYPES, OPERATORS AND EXPRESSIONS" "2"
.PP
Output:
.br
.in +.5i
First pass:
.in +.5i
Chapter ZZ deals with the basic data types, operators and expressions.
.sp
.in -.5i
Second pass:
.in +.5i
Chapter 2 deals with the basic data types, operators and expressions.
.br
.in -1i
.SH SEE ALSO
troff(1)
