.TH CRYPT 1 
.SH NAME
crypt, encrypt, decrypt \- encode/decode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B crypt
[ password ]
.PP
.B encrypt
[ password ]
.br
.B decrypt
[ password ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
These commands read from the standard input and write
on the standard output.
The
.I password
is an enciphering key.
If no password
is given,
one is demanded from the terminal;
echoing is turned off while it is being typed in.
.I Crypt
uses a relatively simple, fast method (rotor machine) for both
enciphering and deciphering.
.I Encrypt
and
.I decrypt
use a more robust, slower method (Data Encryption Standard).
Files enciphered by
.I crypt
are compatible with those treated by the editor
.I ed
in encryption mode.
Files enciphered by
.I crypt
are not intelligible to
.I decrypt,
and vice versa.
.PP
It is prudent to supply the key from the terminal,
not from the command line, and to pick a reasonably long
(6 letters) and unobvious key.
Remember, too, that encipherment cannot frustrate
adversaries with super-user privileges.
.SH FILES
/dev/tty for typed key
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ed(1),
makekey(8)
.SH BUGS
There is no warranty of merchantability nor any warranty
of fitness for a particular purpose nor any other warranty,
either express or implied, as to the accuracy of the
enclosed materials or as to their suitability for any
particular purpose.  Accordingly, Bell Telephone
Laboratories assumes no responsibility for their use by the
recipient.   Further, Bell Laboratories assumes no obligation
to furnish any assistance of any kind whatsoever, or to
furnish any additional information or documentation.
