.TH D202 1 
.SH NAME
d202, daps, dcan, tc \- phototypesetter filters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B d202
[ option ] ... [ file ] ...
.PP
.B e202
[ option ] ... [ file ] ...
.PP
.B daps
[ option ] ... [ file ] ...
.PP
.B dcan
[ option ] ... [ file ] ...
.PP
.B tc
[ option ] ... [ file ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I D202
and its companions print files
created by
.IR troff (1)
on various devices:
.TP
.I d202
Mergenthaler Linotron 202
.PD0
.TP
.I e202
same,
with half-tone and extra graphics capability
.PD0
.TP
.I daps
Autologic APS-5 phototypesetter
.TP
.I dcan
Imagen Canon LBP-10 laser printer,
.TP
.I tc
Tektronix 4014 display
.PD
.PP
If no
.I file
is mentioned, the standard input is printed.
The following options are understood.
.TP
.B \-b
Report whether the typesetter is busy; do not print.
.TP
.BI \-o list
Print pages whose numbers are given in the comma-separated
.IR list .
The list contains comma-separated numbers
.I N
and ranges
.IB N1 \- N2.
A missing 
.I N1
means the lowest-numbered page, a missing
.I N2
means the highest.
.TP
.BI \-s n
Stop after every 
.I n
pages of output.
(Default 1 on 4014).
Proceed when the RUN button is pushed on the typesetter,
(for
.IR d202 )
or newline on the terminal (for
.IR 4014 ).
.TP
.B \-t
Direct output to the standard output instead of the typesetter.
Don't wait between pages in 
.I tc.
.TP
.B \-w
Wait for typesetter to become free, then print.
.TP
.BI \-f " dir"
Take font information from
directory
.I dir
instead of the default.
.TP
.BI \-p "n"
Change default precision of dots to
.IR n 
to use less precious memory.
.I Dcan
only.
.TP
.BI \-a "r"
Set the aspect ratio to
.I r
(default
.IR r =1.5).
.I Tc
only.
.PP
The
.I files
for
.I daps
should be prepared under the
.B \-Taps
option of
.IR troff ;
.I dcan
and
.I tc
are intended as typesetter simulators, and can cope with anything.
.PP
While waiting between pages
.I tc
accepts
.BI ! command
to insert a shell command;
.BI + n
to skip forward
.I n
pages;
.BI \- n
to skip backwards 
.I n 
pages;
.BI a r
to set the aspect ratio;
and
.B ?
to print the list of available actions.
.SH FILES
.nf
/usr/lib/font/dev202/*	202 description files
/usr/lib/font/devAPS/*	aps-5 description files
/usr/lib/font/devcan/*	Canon description and raster character files
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
troff(1), can(1), proof(9.1), apsend(1)
