.TH DB 1
.SH NAME
DB \- database command interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
DB [
.B \-D
] [
.B \-c
]
.BI \-f filename
[
.B \-L
] [
.B \-t
|
.B \-l
] [
.BI \-k key
[
.BI \-d data
] ] [
.B \-g
|
.B \-p
|
.B \-r
|
.B \-a
|
.B \-i
] [
.B \-U
] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I DB
provides a command-level interface to the
.IR DB (3)
routines (q.v.).
.PP
The options and their meanings are:
.TP \w'-f \fIfilename\fP 'u
.B \-D
Increment debugging level.
Currently there are 4 levels of debugging, ranging from conditions that
cause a core dump to a call trace of the user-accessible routines in
the DB library.
.TP
.B \-L
Set an advisory lock on the database.
.TP
.B \-U
Clear an advisory lock on the database.
.TP
.B \-c
Create (or truncate) the named database.
.TP
.BI \-f filename
Names the database.
.TP
.B \-t
Produce a table of contents of the database.
.TP
.B \-l
Produce a listing of the keys and records of the database.
.TP
.BI \-k key
Set the value of the current key.
.TP
.BI \-d data
Set the value of the current data.
.TP
.B \-p
Put the current data at the current key.
.TP
.B \-g
Get (and print) the data at the current key.
.TP
.B \-r
Remove (delete) the data at the current key.
.TP
.B \-a
Append the current data to the data stored at the current key.
.TP
.B \-i
Insert the current data in front of the data stored at the current key.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR DB (3),
.IR DBcp (1),
.IR DBcvt (1).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The diagnostics are intended to be self-explanatory.
Mostly, they're complaints about missing arguments.
.SH BUGS
Nonascii characters cannot be passed to
.I DB
because the shell strips the 8th (most significant) bit.
