.TH DIRED 1
.SH NAME
dired \- directory editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dired
[ option ... ] [ dir-name | file-list ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Dired 
displays a directory listing like
`ls \-l' (see
.IR ls (1))
and allows you to prowl around the listed entries,
deleting, editing, and displaying them.
.I Dired
must know what kind of terminal you are using; the environment
variable TERM should be set (see
.IR term (7)).
.PP
With no argument, the current directory is listed.
With only one
argument, the argument is interpreted as a directory and it is listed.
With multiple arguments, the arguments are interpreted as filenames.
.PP
Options are:
.TP
.BR \- [ sr ][ nsrw ]
Sort or reverse sort by Name, Size, Read date, or Write date respectively.
.TP
.BI \-w n
If 
.I n
is
.BR f,
use the full screen; if
.BR h ,
use half the screen (default); if a number, use
.I n
lines for the directory listing , reserving the rest
of the screen for quick
file display.
.PP
The fields of a
.I dired
listing are: mode, link count, owner, size, write date and name.
A cursor shows the current entry.
.PP
Commands consist of single characters; arguments are
prompted for, and echoed, in the bottom line of the screen.
The commands are:
.TP
<cr>
.br
.ns
.TP
<lf>
.br
.ns
.TP
^N
Step to the next file.
.TP
.B ^
.br
.ns
.TP
.B \-
.br
.ns
.TP
<backspace>
.br
.ns
.TP
^P
Step to previous file.
.TP
.B !
Prompt for a shell command.
The command is executed,
and confirmation is required before returning to the display.  
All `%'
characters in the command are replaced with the pathname of the current
entry, and all `#'
characters are replaced with the trailing filename component
(what you see on the screen).
.TP
.B .
Repeats the previous
.B !
shell command, substituting the current entry for any special characters (%#)
in the original command.
.TP
.B a
Abort this directory level of
.I dired
without deleting any files.
.TP
.B b
Step one page backward in the directory listing.
.TP
.B c
Refresh the current line.
.TP
.B d
Mark the current entry for deletion.
Deletion of a directory is recursive.
.TP
.B e
If the current entry is a file,
edit it with the editor `e',
or another editor named by the environment variable EDITOR.
If the current entry is a directory,
descend (by forking) to list that directory.
.TP
.B f
Step one page forward in the directory listing.
.TP
.B h
.br
.ns
.TP
.B ?
Display a help file.
.TP
.B l
.br
.ns
.TP
^L
Refresh the display.
.TP
.B m
Display the current file with the pager
.IR p (1),
or another pager named by the environment variable PAGER.
(Supply your own etymology for `m'.)
.TP
.B p
Print the current file on the line printer.
.TP
.B q
Quit this directory level of
.I dired.
List the files marked for deletion and request
confirmation before deleting them.
.TP
.B r
.br
.ns
.TP
.B s
Sort the file list by various fields: name, read date, size, write
date, denoted 
`n', `r', `s', and `w'.
Default sort is by name.
Ordering for
.B s
is increasing if by name, decreasing if by size or date.
Ordering for
.B r
is opposite.
A sort can be stopped with ^G.
.TP
.B t
Type.
Display the current file.
In two-window mode pause after each screenfull until you type
a carriage return.
The display may be interrupted by ^C or `q'.
.TP
.B T
Same as 
.B t
but without any pauses.
.TP
.B u
Unmark the current entry if it was marked for deletion.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/lib/dired  'u
/usr/lib/dired	help file for `?' and `h'
.br
lpr(1)		line printer
.SH SEE ALSO
ls(1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
While
.I dired
is preparing a listing it reports, `Reading,' and types a dot
for each 10 files.
.SH BUGS
Long lines and diagnostics can foul up the
display.
.br
Needs a command to search for a given file.
