.TH LS 1
.SH NAME
ls \- list contents of directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ls
[
.B \-abcdfilqrstu1CFLR
] name ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
For each directory argument,
.I ls
lists the contents of the directory;
for each file argument,
.I ls
repeats its name and any other information requested.
The output is sorted alphabetically by default.
When no argument is given, the current directory is listed.
When several arguments are given,
the arguments are first sorted appropriately,
but file arguments appear
before directories and their contents.
.PP
Output to a terminal is normally listed in multiple columns.
If the standard output is not a terminal, the default format is to
list one entry per line.
.PP
There are an unbelievable number of options:
.TP
.B  \-l
List in long format, giving mode (see below), number of links, owner,
group,
size in bytes, and time of last modification
for each file.
Symbolic links are identified by a link count marked `L';
the link count is that of the ultimate file.
If the file is a special file the size field will instead contain
the major and minor device numbers.
.TP
.B  \-t
Sort by time modified (latest first) instead of
by name, as is normal.
.TP
.B  \-a
List all entries; usually
.RB ` . '
and
.RB ` .. '
are suppressed.
.TP
.B  \-s
Give size in kilobytes (kilo=1024) for each entry.
.TP
.B  \-d
If argument is a directory, list its name, not
its contents.
.TP
.B  \-r
Reverse the order of sort to get reverse alphabetic
or oldest first as appropriate.
.TP
.B  \-u
Under
.B \-t
sort by time of last access;
under
.B \-l
give access time.
.TP
.B  \-c
Under
.B \-t
sort by time of inode change;
under
.B \-l
give inode change time.
.TP
.B  \-i
Print i-number in first column
of the report for each file listed.
.TP
.B \-L
Under
.B \-l
for each symbolic link
give the immediate, not the ultimate, link count
and append the name pointed to.
.TP
.B  \-f
Force each argument to be interpreted as a directory
and list the name found in each slot.
This option turns off
.B "\-l, \-t, \-s,"
and
.B \-r,
and
turns on
.B \-a;
the order is the order in which entries
appear in the directory.
.TP
.B  \-1
force one entry per line output format, e.g. to a teletype
.TP
.B  \-C
force multi-column output, e.g. to a file or a pipe
.TP
.B  \-q
force printing of non-graphic characters in file names as
the character `?'; this normally happens only if the output device is
a teletype
.TP
.B  \-F
cause directories to be marked with a trailing `/' and executable
files to be marked with a trailing `*'
.TP
.B  \-R
recursively list subdirectories encountered.
.PP
The mode printed under the
.B \-l
option contains 11 characters
which are interpreted
as follows:
the first character is
.TP
.B  d
if the entry is a directory;
.PD 0
.TP
.B  b
if the entry is a block-type special file;
.TP
.B  c
if the entry is a character-type special file;
.TP
.B  \-
if the entry is a plain file.
.PD
.PP
The next 9 characters are interpreted
as three sets of three bits each.
The first set refers to owner permissions;
the next to permissions to others in the same user-group;
and the last to all others.
Within each set the three characters indicate
permission respectively to read, to write, or to
execute the file as a program.
For a directory, `execute' permission is interpreted
to mean permission to search the directory
for a specified file.
The permissions are indicated as follows:
.TP 3
.B  r
if the file is readable;
.PD 0
.TP 3
.B  w
if the file is writable;
.TP 3
.B  x
if the file is executable;
.TP 3
.B  \-
if the indicated permission is not granted.
.PD
.PP
The group-execute permission character is given
as
.B s
if the file has set-group-ID mode;
likewise the user-execute permission character is given
as
.B s
if the file has set-user-ID mode.
.PP
The last character of the mode (normally `x' or `\-') is 
.B t
if the 1000 bit of the mode is on.
See
.IR  chmod (1)
for the meaning of this mode.
.PP
When the sizes of the files in a directory
are listed, a total count of blocks is printed.
.SH FILES
/etc/passwd, /etc/group to get ID's for
`ls \-l'.
.SH BUGS
The output device is assumed to be 80 columns wide.
.br
The option setting based on whether the output is a teletype is
undesirable as `ls\ \-s' behaves differently from `ls\ \-s\ |\ lpr'.
On the other hand, not doing this setting would make many shell scripts
which use
.I ls
almost certain losers.
.br
Option 
.B \-s
counts unwritten holes as if they were real data.
