.TH MAIL 1 
.SH NAME
mail  \-  send or receive mail 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mail
[
.B \-r
] [
.B \-p
] [
.B \-m
] [
.B \-f
file
]
.br
.B mail
person ...
.br
.B mail \-n
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mail
with no argument prints a user's mail, message-by-message,
in last-in, first-out order,
prompting between messages.
The options are:
.TP
.B \-r
Print mail in first-in, first-out order.
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-p
Print entire mailbox without pause between messages.
.TP
.B \-m
Only print messages explicitly
requested by the user.
.TP
.BI \-f " file"
Use
.IR file ,
e.g. `mbox',
as if it were the mailbox.
.PD
.PP
After printing a prompt
.I mail
reads a line from the standard input
to direct disposition of the message.
Commands are of the form `[range] command [arguments]'.
The command is applied to each message in the specified range.
The optional range can be:
.PD 0
.TP
.B .
current message
.TP
.B +
next message
.TP
.B \-
previous message
.TP
a number
the correspondingly numbered message
.TP
number1,number2
the range of messages between number1 and number2 inclusive
.PD
.PP
The commands are:
.PD 0
.TP
.B d
Mark message for deletion on exiting mail.
.TP
.B u
remove mark for deletion.
.TP
.B h
Print the disposition, size in characters, and header line for
each message in the mailbox.
.TP
.B p
Print message.
.TP
.BI "s [" " file " "] ..."
Save the message in the named
.I files
(`mbox' default, in HOME directory if known, see
.IR environ (5)).
.TP
.BI "m [" " person " "] ..."
Mail the message to the named
.I persons
(yourself by default).
.TP
.B r
Reply to the sender of the last message printed.
.TP
.B EOT (control-D)
Put unexamined mail back in the mailbox and stop.
.TP
.B q
Same as EOT.
.TP
.B x
Exit, without changing the mailbox file.
.TP
.BI ! command
Escape to the Shell to do command.
.TP
.B ?
Print a command summary.
.TP
.B \&=
Print the number of the current message.
.PD
.PP
An interrupt stops the printing of the current letter.
.PP
When
.I persons
are named,
.I mail
takes the standard input up to an end-of-file,
or to a line consisting of a single
.RB ` . '.
and adds it to each
.I person's
mailbox.
The message is automatically postmarked with the
sender's name and date.
Lines that look like postmarks are
prefixed with `>'.
.PP
.I Person
is usually a login name.
To denote a recipient on a remote system, a
network name must be used instead of a simple 
login name; see 
.IR uucp (1),
.IR mail (7).
.PP
If a
.I  person's 
mailbox contains the sole line
.IP
Forward to
.I name
.LP
the mail is sent to
.I name
instead
of
.I person.
.I Name
may be a list of names.
.PP
If a
.I  person's 
mailbox contains the sole line
.IP
Pipe to
.I command
.LP
the mail is piped to
.I command
instead
of being appended to
.I person's
mailbox.
The command is run with the user and
group id of the mailbox's owner.
.PP
Each user owns his own mailbox, which is by default generally
readable but not writable.
.I Mail
does not delete an empty mailbox nor change its mode,
so a user may make it unreadable if desired.
.PP
Option
.B \-n
causes notice to be given on your terminal whenever mail
is delivered to your mail box.
The option is reversed at each occurrence.
See also
.IR sysmon (9.1)
and the MAIL variable of
.IR sh (1).
.PP
When a user logs in he is informed of the presence
of mail.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/spool/mail/mail.log 'u
/usr/spool/mail/mail.log	mail log file
.br
/usr/spool/mail/*	mailboxes
.br
/etc/passwd	to identify sender and locate persons
.br
mbox	saved mail
.br
/tmp/ma*	temp file
.br
$HOME/dead.letter	unmailable text
.br
/usr/lib/upas/printmail	the program to peruse the mail
.br
uux(1)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
xsend(1), write(1), sysmon(9.1), uucp(1), mail(7), upas(8)
.SH BUGS
Option
.B \-n
doesn't work in a
.IR mux (9.1)
layer.
