.TH MAN 1
.SH NAME
man \- print sections of this manual
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B man
[ option ... ] [ chapter ] title ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Man
locates and prints the section of this manual named
.I title
in the specified
.IR chapter .
(In this context, the word `page' is often used as a synonym for `section'.)\ 
The
.I title
is entered in lower case.
The
.I chapter
number does not have a letter suffix.
If no
.I chapter
is specified, the whole manual is searched for
.I title
and all occurrences of it are printed.
.PP
.I Options
and their meanings are:
.TP
.B \-q
Copy an already formatted manual section to the terminal
or, if none is available, act as
.BR \-n .
If the standard output is a terminal,
.IR underline (1)
the output.
This is the default option.
.TP 
.B \-t
Place typesetting instructions on the standard output using
.IR troff (1).
.TP
.B \-n
Print the section on the standard output using
.I nroff.
.TP
.B \-w
Print the path names of the manual sections,
but do not print the sections themselves.
.PP
Further
.I options,
e.g. to specify the kind of terminal you have,
are passed on to
.IR troff (1)
or
.IR nroff .
.I Options
and
.I chapter
may be changed before each
.IR title .
.PP
.SH EXAMPLE
.TP
man man
reproduces this section
as well as any other sections named
.I man
that may exist in other chapters of the manual, e.g. 
.IR man (7).
.SH FILES
/usr/man/man?/\(**
.br
/usr/spool/man/\(**
.SH "SEE ALSO"
troff(1),
eqn(1),
tc(1),
man(7)
.SH BUGS
The manual was intended to be typeset; some detail is sacrificed on terminals.
.br
You can't ask for manual pages named 1 through 9.
.br
Certain manual pages (those that need
.I eqn )
terminate the output under option
.BR \-t ,
causing any following pages to be lost.
