.TH MATLAB 1 piggot
.SH NAME
matlab \- interactive matrix desk calculator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lbin/matlab
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Matlab
reads commands from the standard input and manipulates complex matrices.
Special cases include
real matrices and scalars.
Operations include pseudoinversion (which
is inversion for square nonsingular matrices), eigendecomposition,
various other factorizations, solution of linear equations, matrix
products (including inner and outer products), Kronecker products,
log, exponential and trigonometric functions of matrices, and rank and
condition estimation.
Variables are alphanumeric strings of at most
4 characters.
Case is ignored.
Expressions and assignment statements are written
as in Fortran, and multiple statements can be put on one line,
separated by either a comma or a semicolon; the result of a statement
is written on the standard output unless a semicolon follows the statement.
Extensions to Fortran notation include:
.PP
.I Matrix construction
from elements.
Elements in a row are separated by commas; columns are
separated by semicolons; matrices are surrounded by < > brackets.
.PP
.I Transpose
is indicated by postfix prime \(fm .
.PP
.I Consecutive integers
are denoted by colons in the style 1:4 or 1:8:2 (meaning 1,3,5,7).
.PP
.I Identity
matrix is denoted `eye'; its dimensions are dictated by context.
.PP
.I Reverse division
is denoted by \e .
For example, `x = A \e b' is roughly the same as `x = inv(A) \(** b', except
that Gaussian elimination, if applicable, is used to compute x.
.PP
Some 
.I matlab
commands:
.TP
.B help
.PD 0
.TP
.BI help " word"
List commands and functions; `help 
.IR word '
lists information on
.I word.
It is useful to look over the complete help file
and the MATLAB User's Guide (see below).
.TP
.BI save(\(fm file \(fm)
.PD 0
.TP
.BI save(\(fm file \fR[\fB, var \fR]...\fB\(fm)
Save all current variables,
or just the designated variables in
.I file.
.PD
.TP
.BI load(\(fm file \(fm)
Restore saved variables.
.TP
.BI exec(\(fm file \(fm)
Execute the commands in
.I file
before reading more commands from the standard input.
.PP
.I Matlab
can be called as a subroutine \- for details, see the MATLAB User's Guide or
type `help user'.
.SH FILES
.ds Ml /usr2/matlab
.ds mL /usr/llib
\*(Ml/help \- original help file.
.br
\*(mL/mathelp.dac and \*(mL/mathelp.idx \- direct-access help file.
.br
\*(Ml \- source directory.
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
\*(Ml/src/helper.f
edit this to change location
of the direct-access help file, then do `make' in the (above) matlab
source directory.
.in -.5i
.br
\*(Ml/demo \- demonstration file: use
.I exec(\(fm\*(Ml/demo\(fm)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Cleve Moler, `MATLAB User's Guide', Technical Report CS81\-1 (Revised), Dept.
of Computer Science, University of New Mexico, 1982.
