.TH MONK 1
.SH NAME
monk, monksample \- typeset documents and letters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B monk
[ options ] [ files ]
.PP
.B monksample
[ sample ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Monk
formats the text in the named
.I files
for
phototypesetting, using other
.IR troff (1)
preprocessors as necessary.
.I Options\^
are given below.
Any other arguments or flags (e.g.,
.BR \-o1\-2 )
are passed
to
.IR troff (1).
Options can occur in any order and can be intermixed with files.
If no arguments are given,
.I monk
prints a list of its options.
.PP
.PD 0
.TP
. \".B \-12
. \"Indicates that the document is to be produced in 12-pitch.
. \"May be used with
. \".B $TERM
. \"is set to one of
. \".BR 300 ,
. \".BR 300s ,
. \".BR 450 ,
. \"and
. \".BR 1620 .
. \"(The pitch switch on the
. \".SM DASI
. \"300 and 300s terminals must be manually set to
. \".B 12
. \"if this option is used.)
. \".TP
.BI \-A commands
Invoke the
.I commands
after all preprocessors and before
.IR troff (1).
.TP
.BI \-B commands
Invoke the
.I commands
after
.I monk
and before any other preprocessor.
.TP
.B \-E
Invoke the
.B \-e
option of
.IR troff (1).
.TP
.BR \-R file
Use
.I file
as the index file for
.IR refer (1).
.TP
.BI \-T dest
Prepare output for typesetter or terminal
.IR dest ;
Where dest can be:
.ta \w'\-T52imagen  'u
.br
.BR \-T202 "	Mergenthaler Linotron 202"
.br
.BR \-T9700 "	Xerox 9700 printer"
.br
.BR \-Taps "	Autologic APS-5"
.br
.BR \-Tcanon "	Canon laser printer, see"
.IR candest (7)
(default)
.br
.BR \-Tcat "	Graphic Systems C/A/T"
.br
.BR \-Timagen "	Imagen printer, see"
.IR i10send (1)
.br
.BR \-Tjerq "	5620 or blit terminal"
. \".br
. \".BR \-Tlp "	line printer"
. \".br
. \"If this option is
. \".I not
. \"used,
. \".I monk
. \"will use the shell variable
. \".B $TERM
. \"from the environment (See
. \".IR profile (5)
. \"and
. \".IR environment (7))
. \"as the value of
. \".IR dest .
.TP
.B \-T\-
The output from
.IR troff (1)
is placed on standard output instead of the default printer.
.TP
.B \-x
Shows the preprocessors that are being invoked.
.PD
.PP
The following options are not normally needed because monk automatically
determines which preprocessor are required.
However, if the commands in
.B \-A
or
.B \-B
options require a preprocessor, you can force
.I monk
to invoke them using the following options.
.PP
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-c
.IR col (1)
(postprocessor)
. \"note that
. \".IR col (1)
. \"is invoked automatically by
. \".I monk
. \"for the
. \".BR \-T300 ,
. \".BR \-T300s ,
. \".BR \-T450 ,
. \".BR \-T4014 ,
. \".BR \-Ttek ,
. \".BR \-T1620 ,
. \".BR \-T300-12 ,
. \".BR \-T300s-12 ,
. \".BR \-T450-12 ,
. \".BR \-T1620-12 ,
. \".BR \-T37 ,
. \".BR \-T4000a ,
. \".BR \-T382 ,
. \".BR \-TX ,
. \".BR \-Thp ,
. \".BR \-T2621 ,
. \".BR \-T2640 ,
. \".BR \-T2645 ,
. \".BR \T735 ,
. \".BR \-T745 ,
. \".BR \-T43 ,
. \".BR \-T40/4 ,
. \".BR \-T40/2
. \"terminals.
.TP
.B \-cn
.IR cite (1)
.TP
.B \-e
.IR eqn (1)
.TP
.B \-g
.IR grap (1)
.TP
.B \-i
.IR ideal (1)
.TP
.B \-p
.IR pic (1)
.TP
.B \-r
.IR refer (1)
.TP
.B \-s
.IR soelim (1)
.TP
.B \-t
.IR tbl (1)
.TP
.B \-tp
.IR tped (1)
.PD
.PP
.I Monksample
produces on the standard output a skeleton document that you can
redirect into a file and edit.
If no argument is given,
.I monksample
prints a list of the available
.I samples.
They are:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 8
.B cspress
Computer Science Press galley sheets.
.TP
.B letter
Personal letter
.TP
.B model
IEEE/ACM model sheets.
.TP
.B rp
AT&T Bell Laboratories release paper.
.TP
.B song
Song sheets for singing at nursing homes.
.TP
.B tm
AT&T Bell Laboratories technical memorandum.
.PD
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/lib/monk/dorefer  'u
.br
/usr/lib/monk/cite	forward and backward reference preprocessor
.br
/usr/lib/monk/db	monk databases
.br
/usr/lib/monk/dorefer	sed script for
.IR refer (1)
.br
/usr/lib/monk/monk	monk compiler
.br
/usr/lib/monk/soelim	preprocessor for
.IR troff (1)
`.so' directives
.br
/usr/lib/monk/tmac.p	macros for
.IR pic (1)
preprocessor
.br
/usr/lib/monk/sample	directory for existing samples
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Murrel, S. L.,
Kowalski, T. J.,
.I "Typing Documents on the UNIX System: Using Monk 0.2"
.br
apsend(1),
cite(1),
d202(1),
. \"environment(7),
eqn(1),
grap(1),
ideal(1),
ped(9.1),
pic(1),
. \"profile(5),
proof(9.1),
refer(1),
tbl(1),
troff(1)
