.TH NETNEWS 1  "not alice"
.SH NAME
netnews \- send or receive news articles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B netnews
[
.B \-a
[
date ]]
[
.B \-n
newsgroups ]
[
.B \-t
titles ]
[
.B \-lpr
]
.PP
.B netnews
.B \-s
[
newsgroups ]
.PP
.B netnews
.B \-i
title
[
.B \-n
newsgroups ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Netnews
is an intercomputer news service.
Without argument it prints recent articles.
After each article
a command is read from the standard input.
.TP 10
newline
Go on to next article.
.TP 10
p
Print article again.
.TP 10
\-
Go back to previous article.
.TP 10
c
Cancel (restricted to contributor and superuser).
.TP
.RI "w " file
Append a copy of the article to the named
.I file.
.TP
r
Reply to author (via mail).
.TP
q
Exit.
.TP
x
Exit without update.
.PP
Option
.B \-p
prints with no questions asked.
Option
.B \-r
prints in reverse time order.
Option
.B \-l
prints titles only.
.PP
Normally, printed articles must
.IP (1)
be more recent than your last use of
.IR netnews ;
option
.B \-a
adjusts the time threshold (no date means the beginning of time)
.IP (2)
be in one of the user's newsgroups.
Option
.B \-n
specifies different newsgroups.
.IP (3)
have no particular title.
Option
.B \-t
restricts titles to contain one of the specified strings.
.PP
Option
.B \-s
prints
the list of newsgroups to which
the user subscribes,
or, if
.I newsgroups
are given,
specifies a new subscription list.
Newsgroup
.SM `ALL'
receives all articles.
.SM `NET.ALL'
receives all newsgroups that begin with
.RB `NET . '.
All users subscribe to the newsgroup `general'.
.PP
.I Netnews
.B \-i
inserts an article
(read from standard input)
with title
.I title
to the newsgroups specified by
.B \-n
(default `general').
.SH EXAMPLES
.HP
netnews \-a last tues \-n
.SM ALL
.br
Read all news since Tuesday.
.TP
netnews \-alr
Print titles of all news articles of interest,
most recent first.
.HP
netnews \-s
.SM
.RB "ALL !NET" . ALL
.br
Subscribe to all local articles,
and no NET articles
(obscure feature).
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP "\w'/usr/spool/news/history   'u"
/usr/spool/news/sys.nnn
news articles
.TP
/usr/spool/news/.bitfile
bit map of users with news
.TP
/usr/spool/news/.ngfile
list of newsgroups to which it is
legal to subscribe or submit news
.TP
/usr/spool/news/.uindex
index of netnews users
.TP
/usr/spool/news/.nindex
index of news articles
.TP
/usr/spool/news/.seq
sequence number of last article
.TP
/usr/spool/news/.history
list of all articles ever seen
.TP
/usr/spool/news/.sys
system subscription list
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
mail(1), news(1),
uucp(1)
.SH BUGS
.I Netnews
and
.IR readnews (1)
use the same text in different churches.
