.TH PASCAL 1
.SH NAME
pascal \- language interpreter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pascal
[ options ] [
.B \-i
name ... ] [
.RB name .p
] [ obj [ argument ... ] ]
.PP
.B pmerge
.RB name .p
\&...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Pascal
translates Pascal source programs
to interpretable form, executes them,
or both.
Under option
.B \-c
the programs are translated
but not executed.
The translated code appears in file `obj'.
Under option
.B \-x
.I pascal
interprets the previously translated code in file
.I obj
(default `obj').
.I Arguments
are made available through the built-ins
`argc' and `argv'.
.PP
.I Options
is a string chosen from the following letters:
.TP
.B c
Translate only.
This option must be first if it appears at all.
It is inconsistent with
.BR \-x.
.TP
.B b
Buffer the runtime
file `output'.
.TP
.B l
Make a program listing during translation.
.TP
.B n
List each included
file on a new page with a banner line.
.TP
.B p
Suppress the post-mortem control flow backtrace
if an error occurs;
override execution limit of 500,000 statements.
.TP
.B s
Accept standard Pascal only;
non-standard constructs cause warning diagnostics.
.TP
.B t
Suppress runtime tests of subrange variables and treat
assert statements as comments.
.TP
.B u
Card image mode;
only the first 72 characters of input lines are used.
.TP
.B w
Suppress warning diagnostics.
.TP
.B x
Execute only.
If this option appears, it must be first.
It is inconsistent with the
.B \-c
option.
.TP
.B z
Cause the interpreter to gather profiling data for
later analysis by
.IR pxp (1).
.PP
Option
.B \-i
causes the named procedures and include files to be listed.
.PP
.I Pmerge
combines the named source files into a singlesource files  on the
standard output.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/lib/pi2.0strings  'u
*.p	input file
.br
*.i	include file(s)
.br
/usr/lib/pi2.0strings	error messages
.br
/usr/lib/how_pi*	basic usage explanation
.br
/usr/lib/pascal/*	interpreter passes
.br
obj	interpreter code output
.br
/tmp/pix*	obj file used by pix
.br
pmon.out	profile data file
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.I Berkeley Pascal User's Manual
(there
.I pascal
is called
.I pi, px,
and
.IR pix )
.br
pc(1),
pxp(1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The first character of an
error message indicates its class:
.LP
.DT
.nf
	E	Fatal error; no code will be generated.
	e	Non-fatal error.
	w	Warning \- a potential problem.
	s	Warning \- nonstandard Pascal construct.
.fi
.SH BUGS
The keyword `packed'
is recognized but has no effect.
.br
Diagnostics relating to the last procedure in an included file may appear after the
beginning of the listing of the next.
.br
If both source files and
.I arguments
are specified,
.I obj 
is a dummy.
