.TH PR 1 
.SH NAME
pr \- print file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pr
[ option ] ...
[ file ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Pr
produces a printed listing of one or more
.I files.
The output is separated into pages headed by a date,
the name of the file or a specified header, and the page number.
For no file arguments,
or for a file argument `\-',
.I pr
prints its standard input.
.PP
Options apply to all following files but may be reset
between files:
.TP
.BI \- n
Produce
.IR n -column
output.
.TP
.BI + n
Begin printing with page
.I  n.
.TP
.B  \-h
Take the next argument as a page header.
.TP
.B \-d
double space
.TP
.BI \-w n
For purposes of multi-column output,
take the width of the page to be
.I n
characters instead of the default 72.
.TP
.BI \-f
Use formfeeds to separate pages.
Pause, ring bell, and wait for newline before beginning.
.TP
.BI \-l n
Take the length of the page to be
.I n
lines instead of the default 66.
.TP
.B  \-t
Do not print the 5-line header or the
5-line trailer normally supplied for each page.
.TP
.BI \-s c
Separate columns by the single character
.I c
instead of by the appropriate amount of white space.
A missing
.I c
is taken to be a tab.
.TP
.B  \-m
Print all
.I files
simultaneously,
each in one column,
.TP
.BI \-o n
offset the left margin 
.I n
positions
.TP
.B \-p
between pages pause, ring bell, and wait for newline
.TP
.B \-b
Balance columns on last page, in case of multi-column output.
.PP
Inter-terminal messages via
.IR write (1)
are
forbidden during a
.IR pr .
.SH FILES
/dev/tty?
to suspend messages.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cat(1), present(1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
There are no diagnostics when
.I pr
is printing on a terminal.
