.TH PROF 1 
.SH NAME
prof \- display profile data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B prof
[ option ] ...
[ a.out
[ mon.out ... ] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Prof
interprets files
produced by 
.IR monitor (3)
or the
.B \-p
option of 
.I cc, f77,
or
.IR pascal (1).
The symbol table in the
named object file
(`a.out' by default)
is read and correlated with the
profile file (`mon.out' by default).
For each external symbol, the percentage
of time spent executing between that symbol
and the next
is printed (in decreasing order),
together with the number of times that routine was called
and the number of milliseconds per call.
If more than one profile file is specified,
the output represents the sum of the profiles.
.PP
Call counts are tallied for subroutines compiled
under option
.BR \-p ,
which also causes a
profile file to be produced automatically.
.PP
Options are:
.TP
.B \-a
report all symbols, not
just external symbols.
.TP
.B \-l
sort the output by symbol value
.TP
.B \-n
 sort the output by number of calls
.TP
.B \-s
produce a summary profile file in
.I mon.sum
.TP
.BI "\-v \-" low " \-" high
produce a graphic profile
on the standard output for display by the
.IR  plot (1)
filters; optional numbers
.I low
and 
.I high,
by default 0 and 100, select
a percentage of the profile to be plotted
.TP
.B \-z
include routines with zero usage in the output
.SH FILES
.ta \w'mon.out  'u
mon.out	for profile
.br
a.out	for namelist
.br
mon.sum	for summary profile
.SH "SEE ALSO"
monitor(3), profil(2), cc(1), plot(1)
.SH BUGS
Beware of quantization errors.
.br
.I Prof
is confused by
.I f77
which puts the entry points at the bottom of subroutines and functions.
