.TH PS 1
.SH NAME
ps \- process status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ps
[
.BR aFfhlnrtux number
] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ps
prints information about processes.
Normally, only the user's
non-shell processes are eligible for printing; specifying
.B a
includes other user's processes; specifying
.B x
includes shell processes as well.  (A stopped shell is printed even if the
.B x
flag is missing.)
.PP
All output formats include, for each process, the process id, its
control terminal, status, cpu time, and command.
The status is given
by a sequence of letters:
.ta \w'W'u+1m +\w'Idle (> 20 seconds).'u+3m +\w'W'u+1m
.PP
R	Running.	T	Stopped.
.br
P	Waiting for a page.	S	Sleeping (< 20 seconds).
.br
I	Idle (> 20 seconds).
.br
W	Swapped out.	N	Process is `nice'; see \f2nice\f1(1).
.PP
R, T, P, S, and I are mutually exclusive.
.PP
Options are given in blank-separated clusters:
.nr xx \w'\f2number'u+1m/1n
.TP \n(xx
.B a
give information about all users (ordinarily
only one's own processes are displayed).
.PD 0
.TP
.BI F file
display all processes having an open
.IR file ;
this option must be the last in a cluster.
.TP
.B f
display file descriptors (with prepended process id).
.TP
.B ff
display file descriptors (omitting process id).
.TP
.B h
print column headers.
.TP
.B l
(long) print the process size,
resident set size, wait channel, and parent process id.
.TP
.B n
print unsorted
(output is normally sorted by process id).
.TP
.B r
print processes which match the current real or effective user id
(normally only processes matching the current effective user id
are printed).
.TP
.BI t x
print processes whose controlling tty is
.I x,
where
.I x
is either ``.'' (for user's tty), or one of the forms printed by
.I ps,
e.g.
.I t3
for /dev/tty3,
.I tconso
for console,
.I tpt12
for /dev/pt/pt12,
.I t?
for processes with no tty, etc. This option must be the last in a cluster.
.TP
.B u
include a name of the
effective userid and cpu share in percent; sort by usage.
.TP
.B x
include shell and
.I init
processes.
.TP
.I number
print the designated process;
must be the last option in a cluster.
.PD
.PP
Multiple
.BR F ", " t ", and"
.I number
options are allowed; the union of all selections is printed.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/net/friends'u+1m
/proc	process images
.br
/dev/drum	swap device
.br
/dev/kmemr	kernel memory
.br
/dev	searched to find tty names
.br
/dev/pt	searched to find pt names
.br
/dev/dk	searched to find dk names
.br
/etc/fstab	searched to find local file system names
.br
/usr/net/friends	searched to find network file system names
.SH "SEE ALSO"
kill(1), nice(2), proc(4), oops(8)
.SH BUGS
Things can change while
.I ps
is running.
.br
A process may alter its apparent command name and arguments.
