.TH SPLIT 1 
.SH NAME
split, fsplit \- split a file into pieces
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B split
[
.B \-\fIn
|
.B \-e
expression
]
[
.B \-f
fileroot
] [
.B \-x
] [
.B \-y
] [
.B \-s
suffix
]
[ file ]
.PP
.B fsplit
[ option ] ...
[ file ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Split
reads
.I file
(standard input by default)
and writes
it in
.IR n -line
pieces
(default 1000), as many as necessary,
onto
a set of output files.
The name of the first output
file is
.I fileroot
(default
.BR x )
with
.B aa
appended, and so on
lexicographically.
.PP
If one or more
.I expressions
are specified,
the file divisions occur at each line of
.I file
which matches an
.IR expression ;
line counts are irrelevant.
The
.I expressions
are identical to those of
.IR grep (1).
If a subexpression of
.I expression
is contained in escaped parentheses \e(...\e),
the file name for the output file is the portion of the
line which matches the subexpression, optionally suffixed
by a string specified with the
.B \-s
option.
.PP
The first line of each output file is the matching input line,
but it may be excluded from the output file by setting the
.B \-x
flag.
The
.B \-y
flag causes lower case letters in
.I expression
to match either case of letter in the input,
but any output file names (excluding the suffix)
will be forced to lower case.
.PP
.I Fsplit
splits a collection of Fortran subprograms in one 
.I file
into separate files.
Options
.BR \-f ,
.BR \-e ,
and
.BR \-r
set the file suffix: procedure `proc' will go into
file `proc.f' (default), `proc.e', or `proc.r' accordingly.
Block data subprograms will go into files named `BLOCKDATA1.f', etc.
.PP
Option 
.B \-s
strips off data beyond column 72 together with any resulting trailing blanks.
.SH SEE ALSO
sed(1), awk(1)
