.TH TRACE 1 arend
.SH NAME
pret, trace \- protocol compiler and analyzer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pret
[
.B \-v
] file
.PP
.B trace
[
.BR \- options
] [ arguments ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Trace
analyzes the consistency of medium-sized
data communication protocols.
A protocol is specified in a nondeterministic guarded command
language, `Argos,'
that includes case selection, do-loops, variables, procedures, and macros.
The analyzer can be used to trace deadlocks, unspecified receptions,
timing problems, errors caused by value passing,
and violations of user-specified `assertions.'
.LP
.I Pret
reads the protocol specifications for a set
of interacting processes from the file specified,
checks its syntax and completeness,
and prepares a file
.I pret.out
for the analyzer containing
a finite state machine description of the protocol.
Under option
.B \-v
.I pret
lists the numbers of states
in the state machines, reports if any states are unreachable,
and lists the queue sort for each message queue declared.
.LP
Tracing Options:
.LP
In most cases the options 
.BR c ,
.BR f ,
.BR l ,
and
.B v
will suffice to perform
protocol analyses.
The primary tools for reducing search times are 
.BR m ,
.BR q ,
and
.BR x .
Options 
.BR a ,
.BR k ,
and
.B n
are for advanced use;
.BR i ,
.BR t ,
and
.B y
are experimental.
.LP
Option flags are listed after a single minus sign, followed by a
list of zero or more arguments.
Options that take an argument are matched with an argument from
the argument list in the order in which they occur in the option list.
.TP
.B a
List all prefix paths that were explored up to the
point where they joined a previously analyzed path.
See also option
.BR l .
.TP
.B b
Blast search.
The fastest scan of the state space available.
At each step in the analysis select one and only
one execution option to be explored.
Will not analyze
non-determinism within process descriptions, nor the effect of the
arbitrary interleaving of process executions. 
See also option
.BR x .
.TP
.BI c " N"
Invoke a class N validation, where N can be chosen between 0 and 5
inclusive.
A class 0 search is fast and very partial; a class 5 search
is not necessarily fast but fairly complete.
.TP
.BR f " or " F
Two different ways to format the output sequences.
Option
.B f
gives queue histories, in which
every bracketed message indicates a message sent but not received at
the time of the error.
.B F
gives a time ordered queue history,
where each column corresponds to a queue, and each line to a time step.
.TP
.B i
Ignore variables.
Second order state space folding tool.
.TP
.B j
Find first error sequence and quit.
.TP
.BI k " N"
Set size of state space cache to
.RI 1024* N
(default N=30).
When the caches is filled, one state will be deleted for
each state added.
.TP
.B l
List execution loops.
Warning, there are usually many, and they are hard to interpret.
.TP
.BI m " N"
Restrict search depth to
.I N
steps.
By default the search depth is restricted
to a limit that excludes only pathetic executions (e.g. tenfold overlaps).
The default limit is always printed on the standard error file at the start of a run.
.TP
.B n
Override timeout heuristic.
Override the heuristic that avoids generating
an abundance of `microsecond' timeouts.
Normally a timeout is only considered
if it can resolve a pending lockup.
.TP
.BI q " N"
Restrict the maximum queue size 
to N slots, for all queues.
.TP
.BI r " N"
Restrict the runtime to 
.I N
minutes.
This option cannot be
used in combination with
.BR R .
.TP
.BI R " N"
Report on progress every
.I N
minutes of real time.
By default
.IR N =2.
.TP
.B s
Show finite state machine transition tables graphically.
Do not perform an analysis.
.TP
.BR t " N"
Ignore the state of process
.I N
in state-matching operations.
The value of this mechanism remains unproven.
Try other options first.
.TP
.B v
Verbose.
List execution times, size of the state space,
number of levels searched, etc. at the end of the run.
.TP
.B x
Perform a fast partial search. 
At each step in the analysis select one
process capable of executing and explore all options in that
one process.
Will not explore all possible interleavings.
.TP
.B y
Ignore the state of queues in state-matching operations.
.SH SEE ALSO
G. J. Holzmann,
.I Trace \- a protocol analyzer,
AT&T Bell Laboratories, 1984
.br
G. J. Holzmann,
.I Automated protocol validation in Argos,
AT&T Bell Laboratories, 1984
