.TH TROFF 1 
.SH NAME
troff, nroff \- text formatting and typesetting
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B troff
[ option ] ...
[ file ] ...
.PP
.B nroff
[ option ] ...
[ file ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Troff
formats text in the named
.I files
for
printing on a phototypesetter;
.I nroff
for typewriter-like devices.
Their capabilities are described in the
.I Nroff/Troff user's manual.
.PP
If no
.I file
argument is present, the standard input is read.
An argument consisting of a single minus
.RB ( \- )
is taken to be
a file name corresponding to the standard input.
The options, which may appear in any order so long as they appear
before the files, are:
.TP "\w'\f3\-m\f1name 'u"
.BI \-o list
Print only pages whose page numbers appear in
the comma-separated
.I list
of numbers and ranges.
A range
.IB N \- M
means pages
.I N
through
.IR M ;
an initial
.I \-N
means
from the beginning to page
.IR N ;
and a final
.IR N \-
means
from
.I N
to the end.
.TP
.BI \-n N
Number first generated page
.IR N .
.TP
.BI \-m name
Prepend the macro file
.BI /usr/lib/tmac/tmac. name
to the input
.IR files .
.TP
.BI \-r aN
Set register
.I a
(one character name) to
.IR N .
.TP
.B \-i
Read standard input after the input files are exhausted.
.TP
.B \-q
Invoke the simultaneous input-output mode of the
.B rd
request.
.TP
.B \-z
produce no output: diagnostics and .tm messages only
.HP
.bd I 3
.I Troff only
.br
.bd I
.TP
.B \-a
Send a printable ASCII approximation
of the results to the standard output.
.TP
.BR \-T dest
Prepare output for typesetter
.IR dest .
.B \-T202
= Mergenthaler Linotron 202 (default),
.B \-Tcat
= Graphic Systems C/A/T,
.B \-Taps
= Autologic APS-5.
.TP
.BI \-F dir
take font information from directory
.I dir
.HP
.bd I 3
.I Nroff only
.br
.bd I
.TP
.BI \-s N
.I Nroff
will halt prior to every
.I N
pages (default
.IR N =1)
to allow paper loading or
changing, and will resume upon receipt of a newline.
.TP
.BI \-T name
Prepare output for specified terminal.
Known
.I names
include
.B 37
for the (default) 
Teletype Corporation Model 37 terminal,
.B lp
(`line-printer')
for any terminal without half-line capability,
.B 450
for the \s-1DASI\s+1-450
(Diablo Hyterm),
and
.B think
(HP ThinkJet, see
.IR think (9)).
.TP
.B \-e
Produce equally-spaced words in adjusted
lines, using full terminal resolution.
.TP
.B \-h
Use output tabs during horizontal spacing
to speed output and reduce output character count.
Tab settings are assumed to be every
8 nominal character widths.
.PP
If the file
.I /usr/adm/tracct
is writable,
.I troff
writes phototypesetter accounting records there.
The integrity of that file may be secured by making
.I troff
a `set user-id' program.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/lib/tmac/tmac.*  'u
.br
/tmp/trtmp*	temporary file
.br
/usr/lib/tmac/tmac.*	standard macro files
.br
/usr/lib/term/*	terminal driving tables for
.I nroff
.br
/usr/lib/font/*	font width tables for
.I troff
.br
/usr/adm/tracct	accounting statistics for 
.I troff
.SH "SEE ALSO"
J. F. Ossanna,
.I Nroff/Troff user's manual
.br
B. W. Kernighan,
.I
A TROFF Tutorial
.br
d202(1), proof(9.1), apsend(1),
eqn(1), tbl(1), refer(1), pic(1), ideal(1), ped(9.1), doctype(1), ms(7)
