.TH TSET 1 
.SH NAME
tset \- set terminal modes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tset
[
options
] [
.B \-m
.RB test : type
] ... [ type ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tset
conditionally
sets erase and kill characters, tabs, delays, etc.
for terminals.
It is typically used in startup profiles; see
.IR sh (1).
In default of a specified terminal
.I type
(listed in the file `/etc/termcap')
the type is taken from the environment variable TERM.
Option
.B \-m
determines the type based on source and baud rate:
.IP
.B \-m
.RI [ source ][> baud ]\fB: type
.LP
No sources are distinguished at present.
The test `>' may be replaced by `<', `=', or `@' (same as `=').
The test may be preceded by `!' for negation.
A
.I type
may be preceded by `?' to cause
.I tset
to query whether the guess is right.
Tests are performed left-to-right until one is satisfied.
A final default
.I type
prevails when all tests fail.
Thus
.IP
tset \-m  \'>1200:5620\'  \'?hp\'  
.LP
assumes the terminal is a 5620 if the line speed exceeds 1200 baud.
Otherwise it assumes an hp terminal but asks for confirmation,
giving you a chance to name another type.
.PP
The
.B \-s
option causes tset to place on the standard output shell commands
for setting the environment variables TERM and TERMCAP.
Use this feature thus:
.IP
eval \`tset \-s \fIoptions...\fR\`
.PP
On terminals that can backspace but not overstrike
and when the erase character is the default erase character
(`#' on standard systems),
the erase character is changed to a Control-H
(backspace).
.PP
Other options are:
.TP
.BI \-e " c"
set the erase character to  
.I c,
or backspace if
.I c
is missing
.TP
.BI \-k " c"
set the kill character similarly; use ^X if
.I c
is missing
.TP
.B \-I
supress outputting terminal initialization strings
.TP
.B \-Q
supress printing
`Erase set to' and `Kill set to' messages
.TP
.B \-S
Outputs
TERM and TERMCAP in the environment rather than in shell commands
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/etc/termcap  'u
/etc/ttytype		terminal id to type map database
.br
/etc/termcap	terminal capability database
.SH SEE\ ALSO
sh(1), stty(1), environ(5), termcap(5)
