.\"@(#)uucp.1c	5.2
.TH UUCP 1
.SH NAME
uucp, uulog, uuname \- unix to unix remote file copy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uucp
[ options ]
source ... destination
.PP
.B uulog
[ options ]
[ system ]
.PP
or
.PP
.PP
.B uuname
[
.B \-l
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS Uucp.
.I Uucp\^
copies
.I source
files to the
.I destination
file or directory.
A file name may be a path name on your machine, or may
have the form:
.PP
.IP
system-name!path-name
.PP
where
.I system-name\^
is taken from a list of system names that
.I uucp\^
knows about.
.I System-name\^
may also be a chain of names such as
.PP
.IP
system-name!system-name!...!system-name!path-name
.PP
in which case an attempt is made to send via the specified route.
Care should be taken to ensure that intermediate nodes in the
route are willing to foward information.
.PP
Quoted shell metacharacters
.BR ? ,
.B \(**
and
.B [ ]
appearing in a remote
.I path-name
will be expanded on the appropriate system.
.PP
Path names may be:
.PP
.RS
.TP
(1)
a full path name;
.TP
(2)
a path name preceded by
.BI ~ user\^
where
.I user\^
is a login name on the specified system
and is replaced by that user's login directory;
.TP
(3)
a path name preceded by
.BI ~/ destination\^
where
.I destination\^
is appended to `/usr/spool/uucppublic/';
The destination will be treated as a file name unless
more than one file is being transfered by this request or
the destination is already a directory
or the destination ends with `/'.
For example, ~/dan/ as the destination will make the directory
/usr/spool/uucppublic/dan if it does not exist and put the requested file(s)
in that directory.
.TP
(4)
anything else is prefixed by the current directory.
.RE
.PP
If the result is an erroneous path name for the remote system
the copy will fail.
If the
.I destination\^
is a directory, the last part of the
.I source-file\^
name is used.
.ig
If a simple
.I ~user\^
destination is inaccessible to 
.IR uucp ,
data is copied to a spool directory and the user
is notified by
.IR mail (1).
..
.PP
.I Uucp\^
preserves execute permissions across the transmission
and gives 0666 read and write permissions (see
.IR chmod (2)).
.PP
The following options are interpreted by
.IR uucp :
.TP
.B \-c
Don't copy local file to the spool directory for transfer to the remote
machine (default).
.TP
.B \-C
Force the copy of local files to the spool directory for transfer.
.TP
.B \-d
Make all necessary directories for the file copy (default).
.TP
.B \-f
Do not make intermediate directories for the file copy.
.TP
.BI \-g grade\^
Grade is a single letter/number;
lower ASCII sequence characters will cause the job to be transmitted
earlier during a particular conversation.
.TP
.B \-j
Output the job identification
\s-1ASCII\s+1 string on the standard output.
This job identification can be used by
.I uustat\^
to obtain the status 
or terminate a job.
.TP
.B \-m
Send mail to the requester when the copy is
completed.
.TP
.BI \-s file\^
Report status of the transfer to
.I file.\^
.TP
.BI \-n user\^
Notify
.I user\^
on the remote system that a file was sent.
.TP
.B \-r
Don't start the file transfer, just queue the job.
.TP
.BI \-x debug-level\^
Produce debugging output.
The debug_level is a number between 0 and 9;
higher numbers give more detailed information.
.SS Uulog.
.PP
.I Uulog\^
queries a log file
of 
.I uucp\^
or
.I uuxqt
transactions, optionally limited to a given
.I system.
Its options are
.TP
.B \-f 
Print recent transactions 
and follow further transactions as they occur.
.TP
.B \-x
Look in the uuxqt log file for the given system.
.TP
.BI \- number\^
Print the last
.I number
transactions.
.SS Uuname.
.PP
.I Uuname\^
lists the uucp names of known systems.
The
.B \-l
option returns the local system name.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP "\w'/usr/spool/uucp/.Log/uuxqt/system  'u"
/usr/spool/uucp
spool directories
.TP
/usr/spool/uucppublic
public directory for receiving and sending
.TP
/usr/lib/uucp/\(**
other data and program files
.TP
.RI /usr/spool/uucp/.Log/uuxqt/ system
log of uuxqt transactions with
.I system
.TP
.RI /usr/spool/uucp/.Log/uucico/ system
log of uucp transactions with
.I system
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
mail(1), uux(1)
.SH WARNING
For obvious security reasons,
the domain of remotely accessible files may
be severely restricted.
You will very likely not be able to fetch files
by path name;
ask a responsible person on the remote system to
send them to you.
For the same reasons you will probably not be able
to send files to arbitrary path names.
As distributed, the remotely accessible files are
those whose names begin
`/usr/spool/uucppublic/'
(equivalent to
`~/').
.PP
All files received by
.I uucp\^
will be owned by
.IR uucp .
.br
The
.B \-m
option will only work sending files or receiving
a single file.
Receiving multiple files specified by special shell
characters \fB? \(** \|[\|.\|.\|.\|]\fP will not activate
the \fB\-m\fP option.
.PP
The forwarding of files through other systems is NOT compatible
with the previous version of uucp.
If forwarding is used, all
systems in the route must have the same version of uucp.
.SH BUGS
Protected files and files that are in protected directories
that are owned by the requester can be sent by
.IR uucp .
However, if the requester is root, and the directory is not searchable
by group `other' or the file is not readable by `other',
the request will fail due to a bug in 
.IR setuid (2).
