.TH VI 1
.SH NAME
ex, vi \- text editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ex
[
.B \-
] [
.B \-v
] [
.B \-t 
tag
] [
.B \-r
] [
.B \-R
] [
.BR + command
] [
.B \-l
]
name ...
.PP
.B edit
[ options ]
.PP
.B vi
[
.B \-t
tag ] [
.B \-r
] [
.B \-R
] [
.BR + command
] [
.B \-l
] [
.BR \-w n
] name ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ex
is a superset of
.IR ed (1)
with a display editing facility;
.I edit
is a simplified subset of
.IR ex ;
and
.I vi
is a fully display-based editor with similar capabilities.
Option 
.B \-R
makes the editor read-only.
.SH FILES
.DT
/usr/lib/ex?.?strings		error messages
.br
/usr/lib/ex?.?recover		recover command
.br
/usr/lib/ex?.?preserve		preserve command
.br
/etc/termcap			describes capabilities of terminals
.br
~/.exrc				editor startup file
.br
/tmp/Ex\fInnnnn\fR			editor temporary
.br
/tmp/Rx\fInnnnn\fR			named buffer temporary
.br
/usr/preserve			preservation directory
.SH SEE ALSO
.I Edit: A Tutorial
.br
.I Ex Reference Manual
.br
.I An Introduction to Display Editing
.I with Vi
.br
.I Vi Quick Reference Card,
all in 
.I BSD 4.1 Progammer's Manual,
Volume 2
.br
ed(1), jim(9.1), sed(1)
.SH BUGS
The
.I undo
command causes all marks to be lost on lines changed and then restored
if the marked lines were changed.
.br
.I Undo
never clears the buffer modified condition.
.br
The
.I z
command prints a number of logical rather than physical lines.
More than a screen full of output may result if long lines are present.
.br
File input/output errors don't print a name if the command line \fB`\-'\fR
option is used.
.br
There is no easy way to do a single scan ignoring case.
.br
The editor does not warn if text is placed in named buffers and not used
before exiting the editor.
.br
Null characters are discarded in input files, and cannot appear in resultant
files.
.br
Software tabs using 
.B ^T
work only immediately after the
.I autoindent.
.br
The
.I wrapmargin
option can be fooled since it looks at output columns when blanks are typed.
If a long word passes through the margin and onto the next line without a 
break, then the line won't be broken.
.br
The
.I source
command does not work when executed as 
.BR :source ;
there is no way to use the 
.BR :append ,
.BR :change ,
and
.BR :insert
commands in
.I vi,
since it is not possible to give
more than one line of input to a 
.B :
escape.
To use these
on a
.B :global
you must
.B Q
to
.I ex
command mode,
execute them, and then reenter the screen editor with
.I vi
or
.I open.
