.TH WWB 1 
.SH NAME
wwb, style, diction, punct \- writers workbench
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wwb style
[ option ] ...
file ...
.PP
.B wwb diction
[ option ] ...
file ...
.PP
.B wwb suggest
.PP
.B wwb punct
file ...
.PP
.B wwb wwb 
[
.B \-ms
] [
.B \-mm
] file ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Wwb
controls many subprograms documented in 
the references.
For the full treatment use `wwb wwb', but for quick use the following
subprograms are recommended.
.PP
.I Style
reports on readability, sentence length and
structure, word length and usage, verb type, and sentence openers
in the named documents.
.PP
.I Diction
prints all sentences that contain phrases
from a list of bad or verbose word patterns.
Option 
.B \-p
.I pfile
supplies an additional private pattern file;
option
.B \-n
skips the standard one.
.PP
.I Suggest
reads, from the standard input, phrases deprecated by 
.I diction
and proposes alternatives.
.PP
.I Punct
reports sentences that appear to violate standard punctuation
rules and sentences that contain doubled words.
.PP
.I Style
and
.I diction
expect documents prepared for
.IR nroff/\^troff (1)
and the preprocessors
.I "pic, ideal, grap, eqn, refer,"
and
.IR tbl (1).
Option
.B \-mm
overrides the default macro package,
.BR \-ms .
The related option
.B \-ml 
skips mm-style lists, and should be used if there are many lists of
non-sentences.
.PP
Other options for
.I style
are:
.TP
.B \-a
print all sentences with their length and readability index.
.TP
.B \-e
print all sentences that begin with an expletive.
.TP
.B \-p
print all sentences that contain a passive verb.
.TP
.BI \-l num
print all sentences longer than
.IR num .
.TP
.BI \-r num
print all sentences whose readability index is greater than
.IR num .
.TP
.B \-P
print parts of speech of the words in the document.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
deroff(1), spell(1)
.br
.I "Writer's Workbench User's Manual,"
/usr/man/manw/*
.SH BUGS
Use of non-standard formatting macros may cause
incorrect sentence breaks.
.br
Imperatives cannot be recognized.
