.TH CARDS 6
.SH NAME
canfield, cribbage, fish \- card games
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/games/cribbage
[
.BR \-req
] name ...
.PP
.B /usr/games/fish
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cribbage
plays the card game.
The program may print the rules according to Hoyle
using
.IR more ;
see
.IR p (1).
.PP
The options are:
.TP
.B \-e
When the player makes a mistakes scoring his hand or crib, provide an
explanation of the correct score.
.TP
.B \-q
Print a shorter form of all messages.
.TP
.B \-r
Instead of asking the player to cut the deck, the program will randomly
cut the deck.
.PP
When asked to cut the deck,
answer with a number indicating how many cards down the deck is to be cut.
A carriage return when numeric input is expected means
the lowest legal value; when cutting the deck this
is equivalent to choosing the top card.
.PP
Cards are specified as rank followed by suit, either spelled out,
or abbreviated as in
`ac', `8d', `th', `js'.
.PP
The object of the children's card game
.I fish
is to accumulate `books' of 4 cards of equal rank.
At each turn one player
selects a card from his hand, and asks the other player for
all cards of that rank.
If the other player has some, he hands them all over
and the first player makes another request.
The turn ends when
the second player has no card of the rank requested;
he replies `GO FISH!'
The first
player then draws a card from the `pool' of undealt cards.
If this is the card he had last requested, he draws again.
.PP
The ranks are called `a', `2', ..., `10', `j', `q', `k'.
Hitting
return requests information about the state of the game.
Typing `p' as a first
guess gets `pro' level play.
.PP
.I Canfield
is a solitaire game.
It requires a cursor-addressed terminal.

