.TH STAB 5
.SH NAME
stab \- symbol table types
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <stab.h>"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Stab.h
defines some values of the n_type field of the symbol table of a.out files.
These are the types for permanent symbols (i.e. not local labels, etc.)
used by the compiler
.IR cc (1),
the debugger
.IR pi (1)
and the Berkeley Pascal compiler
.IR pc (1).
Symbol table entries can be produced by the
.I .stabs
assembler directive.
This allows one to specify a double-quote delimited name, a symbol type,
one char and one short of information about the symbol, and an unsigned
long (usually an address).
To avoid having to produce an explicit label for the address field,
the
.I .stabd
directive can be used to implicitly address the current location.
If no name is needed, symbol table entries can be generated using the
.I .stabn
directive.
The loader promises to preserve the order of symbol table entries produced
by
.I .stab
directives.
As described in a.out(5), an element of the symbol table
consists of the following structure:
.PP
.nf
/*
.ti +\w'/'u
* Format of a symbol table entry.
.ti +\w'/'u
*/
.ta \w'#define\ 'u +\w'unsigned 'u +\w'char\ \ 'u +\w'n_name;\ \ 'u
struct nlist {
	union {
		char	*n_name;	/* for use when in-core */
		long	n_strx;		/* index into file string table */
	} n_un;
	unsigned char	n_type;		/* type flag */
	char		n_other;	/* unused */
	short		n_desc;		/* see struct desc, below */
	unsigned	n_value;	/* address or offset or line */
};
.fi
.DT
.PP
The low bits of the n_type field are used to place a symbol into
at most one segment, according to 
the following masks, defined in
.BR <a.out.h> .
A symbol can be in none of these segments by having none of these segment
bits set.
.PP
.nf
/*
.ti +\w'/'u
* Simple values for n_type.
.ti +\w'/'u
*/
.ta \w'#define\ 'u +\w'N_FNAME\ 'u +\w'0x0\ \ \ 'u
#define	N_UNDF	0x0	/* undefined */
#define	N_ABS	0x2	/* absolute */
#define	N_TEXT	0x4	/* text */
#define	N_DATA	0x6	/* data */
#define	N_BSS	0x8	/* bss */

#define	N_EXT	01	/* external bit, or'ed in */
.DT
.fi
.PP
The n_value field of a symbol is relocated by the linker,
.IR ld (1)
as an address within the appropriate segment.
N_value fields of symbols not in any segment are unchanged by the linker.
In addition, the linker will discard certain symbols, according to rules
of its own, unless the n_type field has one of the following bits set:
.PP
.nf
/*
.ti +\w'/'u
* Other permanent symbol table entries have some of the N_STAB bits set.
.ti +\w'/'u
* These are given in <stab.h>
.ti +\w'/'u
*/
.ta \w'#define\ 'u +\w'N_ECOMM\ 'u +\w'0x0\ \ \ 'u
#define	N_STAB	0xe0	/* if any of these bits set, don't discard */

.DT
.fi
.PP
This allows up to 112 (7 \(** 16) symbol types, split between the various
segments.
Some of these have already been claimed.
The transcendental debugger,
.IR pi (9.1),
uses the following n_type values:
.PP
.nf
.nr ww \w'/* return from function: ,,0,lineno,address\ 'u
.ta \w'#define\ 'u +\w'N_ECOMM\ 'u +\w'0x0\ \ \ 'u +\n(wwu
/*
.ti +\w'/'u
* stabs for text symbols (must be 0x?4):
.ti +\w'/'u
*/
#define	N_BFUN	0x24	/* procedure: name,,0,lineno,address	*/
#define	N_FUN	0x24
#define	N_NARGS	0x34	/* function call: ,,0,nbytes,address	*/
#define	N_SLINE	0x44	/* src line: ,,0,lineno,address	*/
#define	N_SO	0x64	/* source file: name,,0,lineno,address	*/
#define	N_SOL	0x84	/* #include file: name,,0,lineno,address	*/
#define	N_ESO	0x94	/* end source file: name,,0,lineno,address	*/
#define	N_ENTRY	0xa4	/* alternate entry: name,,0,lineno,address	*/
#define	N_RFUN	0xb4	/* return from function: ,,0,lineno,address	*/
#define	N_LBRAC	0xc4	/* left  bracket: ,,0,level,address	*/
#define	N_RBRAC	0xd4	/* right bracket: ,,0,level,address	*/
#define	N_EFUN	0xf4	/* end of function: name,,0,lineno,address	*/
/*
.ti +\w'/'u
* stabs for data symbols (must be 0x?6):
.ti +\w'/'u
*/
#define	N_STSYM	0x26	/* static symbol: name,,0,type,address	*/
/*
.ti +\w'/'u
* stabs for bss symbols (must be 0x?8):
.ti +\w'/'u
*/
#define	N_LCSYM	0x28	/* .lcomm symbol: name,,0,type,address	*/
#define	N_ECOML	0xe8	/* end common (local name): ,,address	*/
/*
.ti +\w'/'u
* stabs for non-relocated stuff:
.ti +\w'/'u
*/
#define	N_GSYM	0x20	/* global symbol: name,,0,type,0	*/
#define	N_FNAME	0x22	/* procedure name (f77 kludge): name,,0	*/
#define	N_STFUN	0x32	/* static function: name,,0,type,0	*/
#define	N_RSYM	0x40	/* register sym: name,,0,type,register	*/
#define	N_BSTR	0x5c	/* begin structure: name,,0,type,length	*/
#define	N_ESTR	0x5e	/*  end  structure: name,,0,type,length	*/
#define	N_SSYM	0x60	/* structure elt: name,,0,type,offset	*/
#define	N_SFLD	0x70	/* structure field: name,,0,type,offset	*/
#define	N_LSYM	0x80	/* local sym: name,,0,type,offset	*/
#define	N_PSYM	0xa0	/* parameter: name,,0,type,offset	*/
#define	N_BCOMM	0xe2	/* begin common: name,,	*/
#define	N_ECOMM	0xe4	/* end common: name,,	*/
#define	N_VER	0xf0	/* symbol table version number	*/
#define	N_TYID	0xfa	/* struct, union, or enum name	*/
#define	N_DIM	0xfc	/* dimension for arrays	*/
.fi
.PP
where the comments give the
.I sdb
conventional use for
.IR .stab s
and the n_name, n_other, n_desc, and n_value fields
of the given n_type. 
.I Pi
uses the n_desc field to hold a type specifier in the form used by
.IR cc (1),
in which a base type is qualified in the following structure:
.PP
.nf
.ta \w'#define\ 'u +\w'short\ \ 'u
struct desc {
	short	q6:2,
		q5:2,
		q4:2,
		q3:2,
		q2:2,
		q1:2,
		basic:5;
};
.DT
.fi
.PP
There are four qualifications, with q1 the most significant and q6 the least
significant:
.nf
	0	none
	1	pointer
	2	function
	3	array
.fi
The sixteen basic types are assigned as follows:
.nf
	0	undefined
	1	function argument
	2	character
	3	short
	4	int
	5	long
	6	float
	7	double
	8	structure
	9	union
	10	enumeration
	11	member of enumeration
	12	unsigned character
	13	unsigned short
	14	unsigned int
	15	unsigned long
	16	void
.fi
.PP
The Berkeley Pascal compiler,
.IR pc (1),
uses the following n_type value:
.PP
.nf
#define	N_PC	0x30	/* global pascal symbol: name,,0,subtype,line */
.fi
.PP
and uses the following subtypes to do type checking across separately
compiled files:
.nf
	1	source file name
	2	included file name
	3	global label
	4	global constant
	5	global type
	6	global variable
	7	global function
	8	global procedure
	9	external function
	10	external procedure
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
as(1), ld(1), pi(1), a.out(5)
.SH BUGS
.PP
The loader's relocation conventions limit the number of useful n_type's.
.PP
More basic types are needed.
