.TH GETTY 8 
.SH NAME
getty  \- set terminal mode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/getty
[ char ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Getty
is invoked by
.IR  init (8)
immediately after a terminal is opened,
following the making of a connection.
While reading the user's name
.I getty
attempts to adapt the system to the speed and type of terminal
being used.
.PP
.I Init
calls
.I getty
with an argument specified by the
.I /etc/ttys
file entry for the terminal line.
The argument
.I char
determines the line speed
and other characteristics;
see below.
.I Getty
then types a banner identifying the system (from
.IR /etc/whoami )
and the `login:' message.
Then the user's name is read, a character at a time.
If a null character is received, it is assumed to be the result
of the user pushing the `break' (`interrupt') key.
The speed is then
changed to 1200 baud and the `login:' is typed again;
a second `break' changes the speed to 150 baud and the `login:'
is typed again.  Successive `break' characters cycle through the
speeds 300, 1200, and 150 baud.
.PP
The user's name is terminated by a new-line or
carriage-return character.
The latter results in the system being set to
treat carriage returns appropriately (see
.IR  ioctl (2)).
.PP
Finally,
.IR login (8)
is called with the user's name as argument.
.PP
Here are the possible values for
.IR char .
If more than one speed is given,
the first speed is used initially;
others are selected by successive depressions of the
BREAK key.
Other things,
like delays and tab expansion,
are set in various ways as well.
.PP
.nf
char	speed
0	300-1200-150-110
2	9600
3	1200-300
4	300
5	300-1200
6	2400
7	4800
8	9600-300
9	300-9600
j	exta (usually 19200)
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
init(8), login(8), ioctl(2), ttys(5)
