.TH NETFS 8
.SH NAME
netfs \- network file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/net/share.go
.PP
.B /usr/net/share
.PP
.B /usr/net/fshare
.PP
.B /usr/net/pscript
.SH DESCRIPTION
The network file system is conventionally a set of directories
contained in
.IR /n ,
and a set of files and programs contained in
.IR /usr/net .
.PP
The connections in the network file system are asymmetric, connecting
a
.I client
and a
.IR server .
When the client is connected to the server, the server's file system
appears in one of the directories in
.IR /n .
The client establishes and maintains connections to servers using
.IR /usr/net/setup ,
which is started by invoking the shell script
.I /usr/net/setup.go
in
.IR rc (8).
This program uses the file
.I /usr/net/friends
to control the connections to servers.
Each line in
.I /usr/net/friends
contains four fields:
service name, mount point, unique identifier, and debugging flag.
The service name is the network name for the server, for instance,
.I mh/astro/aliceF
for the server on alice.
The mount point is the name of the directory on which the remote file
system is to be mounted, for instance
.IR /n/alice .
The unique identifiers can be any integers bigger than the maximum major device number
of a device in the system, and smaller than 255.
The simplest practice is to number the lines consecutively starting at 64.
The debugging flag is usually 0, but can be set to 3 before the connection
is established to
cause the server to store copious debugging information in a buffer,
called
.IR debugbuf ,
which can
be examined using
.IR pi (9.1).
.I Setup
reads the file and attempts to connect to all the servers it is not
already connected to.
If the file is changed it will be re-read within 30 seconds.
Connections are tried every 20 minutes.
If the connection exists it is tested every 30 seconds, and shut down
if there is no response to several consecutive probes.
.PP
The server program is
.IR /usr/net/fshare,
invoked in
.I /usr/rc
by
.IR /usr/net/share.go .
It runs as super-user.
It uses a table
.I /usr/net/people
to translate permissions between the server and its clients.
The front of the file explains its format.
The permission table is maintained by running
.I pscript
in the directory
.IR /usr/net .
This produces a table by matching login names from the client and
server password files.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/net/friends  'u
/n/*	mount points for remote file systems
.br
/usr/net/people	userid translation table
.br
/usr/net/friends	connection list
.SH BUGS
Group permissions are not well mapped.
