.TH UPAS 8 
.SH NAME
upas \- address driven mailer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mail
person ...
.br
.B rmail \-N network
person ...
.br
.B cmail \-N network
person ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Upas
is a mail delivery system that disposes
of messages in a way determined by the destination address and a set of
rewriting rules.
It can be used to recognize many address formats and
route remote mail to different network mail interfaces.
.TP
.I mail
is used by a user to send or read mail.
See 
.IR mail (1).
.TP
.I rmail
is used to inject mail coming from other machines into the mail system.
No message conversion is performed.
.TP
.I cmail
is used to inject mail formatted
according to ARPA RFC 822 into the mail system.
The mail is converted into a form understandable to
.I upas.
.PP
.I Upas's
rewriting rules  
(\fImail\fP(7))
contain
.IR ed (1)
style substitutions
that allow addresses to be transformed into the commands used to
inject mail to the networks.
.PP
The \-N option causes the `network' indicates the name of the
network from which the message is coming.
This network name is prepended to the return address.
.PP
Each message submitted using
.I rmail
or
.I cmail
is checked against a forwarding list.
Unless the name of all machines in the source path or
all machines in the destination path are in the
forwarding list, the message is refused.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/lib/upas/forwardlist 'u
/usr/lib/upas/rewrite	the rewriting rules
.br
/usr/lib/upas/forwardlist	the forwarding list
.br
/usr/lib/upas/forwardlist.lo	local forwarding list
.br
/bin/mail	the mailer program
.br
/bin/rmail	linked to /bin/mail
.br
/bin/cmail	linked to /bin/mail
.br
/usr/spool/mail/*	mailboxes
.br
/etc/passwd	authentication
.br
/tmp/ma*	temp file
.br
/tmp/ml*	lock file
.br
$HOME/dead.letter	unmailable text
.SH "SEE ALSO"
xsend(1), write(1), uucp(1), mail(1), mail(7)
