.TH UUCLEANUP 8
.SH NAME
uucleanup \- uucp spool directory clean-up
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/uucp/uucleanup
[ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Uucleanup\^
removes old files from the
.I uucp
spool directories.
It is controlled by a number of options:
.TP .8i
.BI \-C days\^
Remove
B C.
files
that are at least
.I days
old,
and send a message to the user who queued the job.
.TP
.BI \-D days\^
Remove
.B D.
files
that are at least
.I days
old.
If the data file appears to contain a mail message,
an attempt will be made to deliver it;
if it contains a netnews article
from another system,
it will be handed to
.IR rnews .
.TP
.BI \-W days\^
Send a warning to the user who queued any jobs
(\c
.BR C.
files)
at least
.I days
old.
If one of the data files for the job appears to be a mail message,
the message is included in the warning.
.TP
.BI \-X days\^
Remove any
.B X.
files
at least
.I days
old.
.TP
.BI \-m string\^
Include
.I string
in warning messages.
The default is
``See your local administrator to locate the problem.''
.TP
.BI \-o days\^
Remove any other files
that are at least
.I days
old.
.TP
.BI \-s system\^
Examine only files associated with
.IR system .
.PP
By default,
.B C.
files generate a warning when
one day old,
and are removed after 7 days;
.B D.
files are removed after 7 days;
and
.B X.
and other files
are removed after 2 days.
.PP
This program is typically called by the shell
.IR uudemon.cleanup ,
which should be started regularly by
.IR cron (8).
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 1.1i
/usr/lib/uucp
directory with commands used by
.I uucleanup\^
internally
.TP
/usr/spool/uucp
spool directory
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
uucp(1)
.\"	@(#)
