.TH VMSTAT 8 
.SH NAME
vmstat \- report virtual memory statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vmstat
[
.B \-fs
]
[ interval [ count ] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Vmstat
normally reports certain statistics kept about
process, virtual memory, disk, trap and cpu activity.
Option
.B \-f
reports on 
.I forks
since system startup and the number of pages of virtual memory involved.
Option
.B \-s
reports on paging
events since boot.
.PP
In the absence of other options, the optional
.I interval
argument causes
.I vmstat
to report once each
.I interval
seconds, repeated
.I count
times or forever.
.PP
The default format fields are:
.PP
Procs: information about numbers of processes in various states.
.nf
R	in run queue
B	blocked for resources (i/o, paging, etc.)
W	runnable or short sleeper (< 20 secs) but swapped
.fi
.PP
Memory: usage of virtual and real memory.
`Active' virtual pages belong ot o processes that
have run in the last 20 seconds.
.nf
AVM	active virtual pages
FRE	size of the free list
.fi
.PP
Page: paging activity,
averaged each five seconds, and given in units per second.
.nf
RE	page reclaims (simulating reference bits)
PI	page-in events
PO	page-out events
FR	pages freed per second
DE	anticipated short term memory shortfall
SR	scan rate: pageout daemon rpm
.fi
.PP
Disk: operations per second.
Typically paging is split across several drives.
The drive names are ephemeral: ask a guru.
.nf
.fi
.PP
Faults: trap/interrupt rate averages per second over last 5 seconds.
.nf
IN	(non clock) device interrupts per second
SY	system calls per second
PD	pseudo-dma interrupts on DZ
CS	cpu context switch rate (switches/sec)
.fi
.PP
Cpu: breakdown of percentage usage of CPU time
.nf
US	user time for normal and low priority processes
SY	system time
ID	cpu idle
.fi
.SH FILES
/dev/kmem, /unix
