sys/acct.c		standard
sys/alloc.c		standard
sys/calloc.c		standard
sys/clock.c		standard
sys/fio.c		standard
sys/iget.c		standard
sys/ioctl.c		standard
sys/machdep.c		standard
sys/main.c		standard
sys/mp.c		standard
sys/nami.c		standard
sys/neta.c		standard
sys/partab.c		standard
sys/pipe.c		standard
sys/prf.c		standard
sys/proca.c		standard
sys/rdwri.c		standard
sys/rmap.c		standard
sys/sig.c		standard
sys/slp.c		standard
sys/streamio.c		standard
sys/subr.c		standard
sys/sys1.c		standard
sys/sys2.c		standard
sys/sys3.c		standard
sys/sys4.c		standard
sys/sysent.c		standard
sys/text.c		standard
sys/trap.c		standard
sys/udiv.s		standard
sys/urem.s		standard
sys/vaxtrap.c		standard
sys/vmdrum.c		standard
sys/vmmem.c		standard
sys/vmmon.c		standard
sys/vmpage.c		standard
sys/vmproc.c		standard
sys/vmpt.c		standard
sys/vmsched.c		standard
sys/vmsubr.c		standard
sys/vmswap.c		standard
sys/vmsys.c		standard
dev/bio.c		standard
dev/streamconf.c	standard
dev/cons.c		standard
dev/dkbad.c		standard
dev/dkleave.c		standard
dev/dsort.c		standard
dev/flp.c		standard
dev/mem.c		standard
dev/stream.c		standard
dev/sw.c		standard
dev/vaxcpu.c		standard
dev/autoconf.c		standard device-driver
dev/uba.c		standard device-driver
dev/an.c		optional an device-driver
dev/bpd.c		optional bpd device-driver
dev/cv.c		optional cv device-driver
dev/dh.c		optional dh device-driver
dev/dk.c		optional dk device-driver
dev/dn.c		optional dn device-driver
dev/dr.c		optional dr device-driver
dev/dz.c		optional dz device-driver
dev/ec.c		optional ec device-driver
dev/eikonix.c		optional ekx device-driver
dev/hp.c		optional hp device-driver
dev/ht.c		optional tu device-driver
dev/ju.c		optional ju device-driver
dev/kdi.c		optional kdi device-driver
dev/kmc.c		optional kmc device-driver
dev/lex.c		optional lex device-driver
dev/lp.c		optional lp device-driver
dev/mba.c		optional mba device-driver
dev/mg.c		optional mg device-driver
dev/mt.c		optional mu device-driver
dev/om.c		optional om device-driver
dev/ramtek.c		optional rtk device-driver
dev/sn.c		optional sn device-driver
dev/rk.c		optional rk device-driver
dev/tm.c		optional te device-driver
dev/tri.c		optional tri device-driver
dev/ts.c		optional ts device-driver
dev/uda.c		optional ra device-driver
dev/up.c		optional up device-driver
dev/va.c		optional va device-driver
dev/vp.c		optional vp device-driver
chncp/chch11.c		optional chch device-driver
chncp/chdr11c.c		optional chdr device-driver
chncp/chil.c		optional chil device-driver
dev/bufld.c		optional bf pseudo-device
dev/cmcld.c		optional cm pseudo-device
dev/dkp.c		optional dkp pseudo-device
dev/mesg.c		optional mesg pseudo-device
dev/nttyld.c		optional ntty pseudo-device
dev/pk.c		optional pk pseudo-device
dev/spipe.c		optional sp pseudo-device
dev/trc.c		optional trc pseudo-device
dev/ttyld.c		optional tty pseudo-device
chncp/chclock.c		optional chaos pseudo-device
chncp/chrcv.c		optional chaos pseudo-device
chncp/chsend.c		optional chaos pseudo-device
chncp/chstream.c	optional chaos pseudo-device
chncp/chuser.c		optional chaos pseudo-device
chncp/chutil.c		optional chaos pseudo-device
chunix/challoc.c	optional chaos pseudo-device
chunix/chaos.c		optional chaos pseudo-device
chunix/chconf.c		optional chaos pseudo-device
chunix/chtime.c		optional chaos pseudo-device
chunix/chtty.c		optional cht pseudo-device
net/arpld.c		optional arp pseudo-device
net/order.c		optional arp pseudo-device
net/netutil.c		optional arp pseudo-device
inet/ip_arp.c		optional uarp pseudo-device
inet/goo.s		optional inet pseudo-device
inet/ip_device.c	optional inet pseudo-device
inet/ip_input.c		optional inet pseudo-device
inet/ip_ld.c		optional inet pseudo-device
inet/ip_output.c	optional inet pseudo-device
inet/ip_subr.c		optional inet pseudo-device
inet/socket.c		optional tcp pseudo-device
inet/tcp_device.c	optional tcp pseudo-device
inet/tcp_input.c	optional tcp pseudo-device
inet/tcp_ld.c		optional tcp pseudo-device
inet/tcp_output.c	optional tcp pseudo-device
inet/tcp_subr.c		optional tcp pseudo-device
inet/tcp_timer.c	optional tcp pseudo-device
inet/udp_device.c	optional udp pseudo-device
inet/udp_input.c	optional udp pseudo-device
inet/udp_ld.c		optional udp pseudo-device
inet/udp_output.c	optional udp pseudo-device
dev/ill.c		optional il device-driver
dev/ds.c		optional ds device-driver
dev/scn.c		optional scn device-driver
chaosld/chrouteld.c	optional chroute pseudo-device
chaosld/chutil.c	optional chroute pseudo-device
chaosld/chaos_device.c	optional ch pseudo-device
chaosld/chaosld.c	optional ch pseudo-device
chaosld/chsend.c	optional ch pseudo-device
chaosld/chrcv.c		optional ch pseudo-device
chaosld/chset.c		optional ch pseudo-device
chaosld/chservice.c	optional ch pseudo-device
chaosld/chconn.c	optional ch pseudo-device
chaosld/chpacket.c	optional ch pseudo-device
chaosld/challoc.c	optional ch pseudo-device
chaosld/chtime.c	optional ch pseudo-device
dev/delimfilter.c	optional filter pseudo-device
dev/dumpld.c		optional dumpld pseudo-device
dev/connld.c		optional connld pseudo-device
dev/iti.c		optional iti device-driver
dev/ctu.c		optional ctu device-driver
dev/ut.c		optional tj device-driver
dev/de.c		optional de device-driver
