.TH APNEWS 7 alice 
.SH NAME
apnews, ap.keys \- present AP wire stories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B apnews
[
.B \-f
dir
] [
.B \-r
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Apnews
presents news from the AP wire on a video screen.
The top half of the screen contains 20
story slugs (two-word labels).
.I Apnews
responds to these commands:
.TP "\w'c file  'u"
.I n
print story for slug
.IR n ;
page through it by typing newlines
.TP
m	present more slugs
.TP
.B \&.
return to current slug list
.TP
t
return to first list
.TP
.RI s " keywords"
present slugs for stories containing these keywords
.TP
y
present slugs for stories containing words from the last story read
.TP
.RI c " file"
(copy) add story being read to named file or directory
.TP
?
print some help
.PP
To suggest interest,
slugs may be followed by a bracketed number that shows
the average number of pages (up to 5) that readers
have perused.
Option
.B \-r
turns this feature off.
.PP
Option
.B \-f
directs the attention of
.I apnews
to a specified directory of AP stories, as may be collected by
.I ap.keys.
.PP
To monitor news automatically, put a file
.I ap.keys
in your home directory.
This file contains instruction lines marked by stars (*),
each followed by one or more search lines.
Instructions specify how much to capture:
.PP
S	whole story
.br
P	first paragraph
.br
H	heading
.LP
then what to do with it:
.TP
| command
specifying a command (often mail) to be executed with the
story as standard input
.TP
> file
specifying a file or directory to add the story to;
pathnames are relative to your home directory
.PP
If no instruction is present, the default is
.IP
*S | mail yourself
.PP
Search lines may contain:
.IP \-
a sequence of blank-separated words; these words
must occur in this order
.IP \-
a sequence of words separated
by commas; these words must appear in the same sentence
.IP \-
a sequence of words separated by periods; these words may
occur anywhere in the story, but all must appear
.PP
Combinations
are allowed, e.g.\&
.I " x . y, z"
specifies
.I y
and
.I z
in the same sentence and
.I x
somewhere in the same story.
The character `!' means not, so that
.I !chocolate chip
means
.I chip
not preceded by
.I chocolate.
Some suffixes are removed; and
capitals are ignored except when entire words are
capitalized.
Thus
.I ERA
and
.I era
are distinguished, but
.I Waters
and
.I waters
are not.
Special `words' specify story types:
.PP
#f	flash
.br
#b	bulletin
.br
#u	urgent news
.br
#r	regular news
.br
#d	deferred news
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.nf
\(**S > stuff
bell laboratories
FCC . telephone, regulation
\(**P | mail joe
#b
AM-NewsDigest
.fi
.SH FILES
/usr/spool/ap/*
