.TH MAP 7 bowell
.SH NAME
map \- draw maps on various projections
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B map
projection [ param ... ] [ option ... ]
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Map
prepares on the standard output a 
map suitable for display by any
plotting filter described in
.IR  plot (1).
A menu of projections is produced in response to an unknown
.IR projection .
For the meanings of 
.I params
pertinent to particular projections
see
.IR  map (3).
.PP
The default data for 
.I map
are world shorelines.
Option
.B \-f
accesses more detailed data
classified by feature.
.TP
.BR \-f " [ \fIfeature\fR ] ..."
Known 
features are ranked 1 to 4 from major to minor,
with a higher-numbered rank including all lower-numbered ones.
A missing rank is taken to be 1.
Features are
.nf
.ta \w'country[123]  'u
shore[1-4]	seacoasts, lakes, and islands; option \fB\-f\fR always shows shore1
ilake[1-2]	intermittent lakes
river[1-4]	rivers
iriver[1-3]	intermittent rivers
canal[1-3]	(canal3 = irrigation canals)
glacier
iceshelf[12]
reef
saltpan[12]
country[123]	(country[23] = disputed and indefinite boundaries)
state	states and provinces (US and Canada only)
.fi
.PP
In the following list of other options
all coordinates are in degrees, with north latitude
and west longitude counted as positive.
.TP
.BI \-l " S N E W"
the southern and northern latitude
and the eastern and western longitude limits of the desired map.
Missing arguments are filled out from the list
\-90, 90, \-180, 180,
or lesser limits suitable to the
projection in question.
.TP
.BI \-o " lat lon rot"
Orient the map in a nonstandard position.
Imagine a transparent gridded sphere around the globe.
First turn the overlay about the North Pole
so that the Prime Meridian (longitude 0)
of the overlay coincides with meridian
.I lon
on the globe.
Then tilt the North Pole of the
overlay along its Prime Meridian to latitude
.I lat
on the globe.
Finally again turn the
overlay about its `North Pole' so
that its Prime Meridian coincides with the previous position
of meridian
.IR rot .
Project the desired map in
the standard form appropriate to the overlay, but presenting
information from the underlying globe.
Missing arguments are filled out from the list
90, 0, 0.
Default orientation is 90, 0, 
.I m,
where 
.I m
is the middle of the longitude range.
.TP
.BI \-w " S N E W"
Window the map by the specified latitudes
and longitudes in the tilted, rotated coordinate system.
(It is wise to give an encompassing
.B \-l
option with
.BR \-w .
Otherwise for small windows computing time
varies inversely with area!)
.TP
.BI \-d " n"
Alter the density of points
by plotting only every
.IR n th
one.
.TP
.B  \-r
Reverse left and right side of map,
for star charts and inside-out views.
.ns
.TP
.B  \-s
Save the screen, don't erase before drawing.
.TP
.BI \-g " dlat dlon res"
Grid spacings are
.I dlat,
.I dlon
(10 degrees by default).
Zero spacing means no grid.
Missing 
.I dlat 
is taken to be zero.
Missing 
.I dlon
is taken the same as 
.IR dlat .
Grid lines are drawn to a resolution of
.I res
(2 degrees by default).
.TP
.BI \-p " lat lon extent"
Position the point
.I lat, lon
at the center of the plotting area, and
scale so that the height (and width) of the
nominal plotting area is
.I extent
times the size of one degree of latitude
at the center.
For example, a standard schoolroom-wall
Mercator map comes out as if positioned
and scaled
with
\-p 0 0 360.
.TP
.BI \-c " x y"
After all other positioning and scaling operations
have been performed, move the center of the map
to position
.I x, y,
where the nominal plotting area is
.RI \-1 \(<= x \(<= 1,
.RI \-1 \(<= y \(<= 1.
.TP
.BR \-m " [ file ] ..."
Use
map data from named files instead of the defaults.
If no files are named, plot grid only.
Names not the pathname of real files are looked up in
a standard directory, which contains, in addition to the
data for
.BR \-f ,
.RS
.PP
.nf
.ta \w'counties 'u
world	World Data Bank I from CIA (the default map)
states	US map from Census Bureau
counties	US map from Census Bureau
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B  \-b
Suppress border around map.
.TP
.BR \-t " [ file ] ..."
The following arguments name ASCII files that
contain lists of points,
given as latitude-longitude pairs in degrees.
If the first file is named `\-', the standard input is taken instead.
The points of each list are plotted as connected `tracks', i.e.
dot-dashed lines
superimposed on the map.
A nonnumeric field
optionally preceded by `"'
ends a track.
The field together with everything up to the next newline
is placed as a label at the
last point of the track,
positioned so that a leading character such as `+' or `X'
will fall on the point.
.TP
.BR \-u " [ file ] ..."
Same as
.BR \-t ,
except the tracks are
unbroken lines.
.PP
The environment variables MAP and MAPDIR change the default
map and default directory.
.SH EXAMPLES
A `polar' map centered on
New York (actually a low-orbit view):
map perspective 1.025 \-o 40.75 74.
The job can be done faster by limiting the map so as not to `plot'
the invisible part of the world:
map perspective 1.025 \-o 40.75 74 \-l 20 60 30 100.
.br
An `equatorial' map of the earth
centered on New York:
map mercator \-o 49.25 \-106 180.
The pole of the map is placed 90 degrees away on the
other side of the earth.
A 180-degree twist around the pole of the map arranges that the
`Prime Meridian' of the map runs from the pole of the
map over the North Pole to New York
instead of down the back side of the earth.
The same effect can be had from: map mercator \-o 130.75 74.
.br
A customary curved-latitude map of the United States:
map albers 28 45 \-l 20 50 60 130.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/n/bowell/usr1/maps 'u
/n/bowell/usr1/maps	default directory, contains following files
.br
101,102,...,403	World Data Bank II
.br
world	World Data Bank I
.br
states
.br 
counties
.SH "SEE ALSO"
map(5), map(3), plot(1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
`map seems to be empty'\(emthe intersection of the
limits and the window seems to be null;
for very local maps, 
the grid resolution
.I res
may have to be refined.
.SH BUGS
Border lines appear only along boundaries that
arise from
.B \-l
and
.B \-w 
options.
.br
Segments that cross a map border are dropped.
