.hc %
.TH MS 7 
.SH NAME
ms \- macros for formatting manuscripts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "nroff \-ms"
[ options ]
file ... 
.br
.B "troff \-ms"
[ options ]
file ... 
.SH DESCRIPTION
This package of 
.I nroff
and
.I troff
macro definitions provides a canned formatting
\&facility for tech%nical papers in various formats.
When producing 2-column output on a terminal, filter
the output through
.IR  col (1).
.PP
The macro requests are defined below.
Many
.I nroff
and
.I troff
requests are unsafe in conjunction with
this package, but these requests may be used with
impunity after the first .PP:
.IP
.ta \w'.sp n 'u
\&.bp	begin new page
.nf
\&.br	break output line here
\&.sp n	insert n spacing lines
\&\&.ls n	(line spacing) n=1 single, n=2 double space
\&\&.na	no alignment of right margin
.fi
.PP
Output of the
.I eqn,
.I neqn,
.I tbl,
and
.IR  refer (1)
preprocessors
for equations, tables and references is acceptable as input.
.PP
Diacritical marks may be applied to letters,
as in these examples:
.ta .5i 1i 1.5i 2i 2.5i 3i 3.5i 4i 4.5i 5i 5.5i
.ds ' \h'\w'e'u*4/10'\z\(aa\h'-\w'e'u*4/10'
.ds ` \h'\w'e'u*4/10'\z\(ga\h'-\w'e'u*4/10'
.ds : \v'-0.6m'\h'(1u-(\\n(.fu%2u))*0.13m+0.06m'\z.\h'0.2m'\z.\h'-((1u-(\\n(.fu%2u))*0.13m+0.26m)'\v'0.6m'
.ds ^ \\k:\h'-\\n(.fu+1u/2u*2u+\\n(.fu-1u*0.13m+0.06m'\z^\h'|\\n:u'
.ds ~ \\k:\h'-\\n(.fu+1u/2u*2u+\\n(.fu-1u*0.13m+0.06m'\z~\h'|\\n:u'
.ds v \\k:\\h'+\\w'e'u/4u'\\v'-0.6m'\\s6v\\s0\\v'0.6m'\\h'|\\n:u'
.ds , \\k:\\h'\\w'c'u*0.4u'\\z,\\h'|\\n:u'
.IP
\e*\`e	\e*\`a	\e*\'e	\e*^e	\e*^o	\e*:u	\e*~n	\e*,c	\e*vc
.br
\*`e 	\*`a 	\*'e 	\*^e 	\*^o 	\*:u 	\*~n 	\*,c 	\*vc
.SH FILES
/usr/lib/tmac/tmac.s
.SH "SEE ALSO"
eqn(1), troff(1), refer(1), tbl(1)
.SH REQUESTS 
.ta \w'..ND \fIdate\fR 'u +\w'Initial 'u +\w'Cause 'u
.br
.di x
			\ka
.br
.di
.in \nau
.ti0
Request	Initial	Cause	Explanation
.ti0
	Value	Break
.br
.in \nau
.ti0
\&.1C	yes	yes	One column format on a new page.
.ti0
\&.2C	no	yes	Two column format.
.ti0
\&.AB	no	yes	Begin abstract.
.ti0
\&.AE	-	yes	End abstract.
.ti0
\&.AI	no	yes	Author's institution follows.
Suppressed in TM.
.ti0
\&.AT	no	yes	Print `Attached' and turn off line filling.
.ti0
\&.AU \fIx y\fR	no	yes	Author's name follows.
.IR x " is location and " "y\fR is"
extension, ignored except in TM.
.ti0
\&.B \fIx y\fR	no	no	Print
.I x
in boldface and append 
.IR y ;
if no argument switch to boldface.
.ti 0
\&.B1	no	yes	Begin text to be enclosed in a box.
.ti0
\&.B2	no	yes	End boxed text.
.ti0
\&.BT	date	no	Bottom title, automatically invoked at
foot of page.
May be redefined.
.ti0
\&.BX \fIx\fR	no	no	Print
.I x
in a box.
.ti0
\&.CS \fIx...\fR	-	yes	Cover sheet info if
TM format, suppressed otherwise.
Arguments are number of text pages,
other pages, total pages, figures, tables, references.
.ti0
\&.CT	no	yes	Print `Copies to' and turn off line filling.
.ti0
\&.DA \fIx\fR	nroff	no	`Date line' at bottom of page
is
.IR x .
Default is today.
.ti0
\&.DE	-	yes	End displayed text.
Implies .KE.
.ti0
\&.DS \fIx\fR	no	yes	Start of displayed text,
to appear verbatim line-by-line.
.IR x "=I for indented display (default),"
.IR x "=L for left-justified on the page,"
.IR x "=C for centered,"
.IR x =B
(block) for centered with straight left margin.
Implies .KS.
.ti0
\&.EG	no	-	Print document in BTL format for `Engineer's Notes.'  Must be first.
.ti0
\&.EN	-	yes	Space after equation
produced by
.I eqn
or
.IR neqn .
.ti0
\&.EQ \fIx y\fR	-	yes	Display equation.
Equation number is
.IR y .
Optional argument
.IR x =I,
L, C as in .DS.
.ti0
\&.FE	-	yes	End footnote.
.ti0
\&.FP	-	no	Set font positions for a family, e.g., ".FP palatino"
.ti0
\&.FS	no	no	Start footnote.
The note will be moved to the bottom of the page.
.ti0
\&.HO	-	no	`Bell Laboratories, Holmdel,
New Jersey 07733'.
.ti0
\&.I \fIx y\fR	no	no	Italicize
.I x
and append
.IR y ;
if no argument switch to Italic.
.ti0
\&.IH	no	no	`Bell Laboratories, Naperville, Illinois 60540'
.ti0
\&.IM	no	no	Print document in BTL format for an internal memorandum.  Must be first.
.ti0
\&.IP \fIx y\fR	no	yes	Start indented paragraph,
with hanging tag
.IR x .
Indentation is
.IR y ""
ens (default 5).
.ti0
\&.KE	-	yes	End keep.
Put kept text on next page if not enough room.
.ti0
\&.KF	no	yes	Start floating keep.
If the kept text must be moved to the next page,
float later text back to this page.
.ti0
\&.KS	no	yes	Start keeping following text.
.ti0
\&.LG	no	no	Make letters larger.
.ti0
\&.LP	yes	yes	Start left-blocked paragraph.
.ti0
\&.LT	no	yes	Start a letter with today's date;
address follows.
.ti0
\&.MF	-	-	Print document in BTL format for `Memorandum for File.'  Must be first.
.ti0
\&.MH	-	no	`Bell Laboratories, Murray Hill,
New Jersey 07974'.
.ti0
\&.MR	-	-	Print document in BTL format for `Memorandum for Record.'  Must be first.
.ti0
\&.ND \fIdate\fR	troff	no	Use date supplied (if any) only in
special BTL format positions; omit from page footer.
.ti0
\&.NH \fIn\fR	-	yes	Same as .SH, with section
number supplied automatically.
Numbers are multilevel, like 1.2.3,
where
.IR n ""
tells what level is wanted (default is 1).
.ti0
\&.NL	yes	no	Make letters normal size.
.ti0
\&.OK	-	yes	`Other keywords' for TM cover
sheet follow.
.ti0
\&.PP	no	yes	Begin paragraph.
First line indented.
.ti0
\&.PT	pg #	-	Page title, automatically invoked at
top of page.
May be redefined.
.ti0
\&.PY	-	no	`Bell Laboratories, Piscataway, New Jersey 08854'
.ti0
\&.QE	-	yes	End quoted material.
.ti0
\&.QP	-	yes	Begin single quoted paragraph (indent both margins).
.ti0
\&.QS	-	yes	Begin quoted material (indent both margins).
.ti0
\&.R	yes	no	Roman text follows.
.ti0
\&.RE	-	yes	End relative indent level.
.ti0
\&.RP	no	-	Cover sheet and first page for released
paper.
Must precede other requests.
.ti0
\&.RS	-	yes	Start level of relative indentation
from which subsequent indentation is measured.
.ti0
\&.SG \fIx\fR	no	yes	Insert signature(s) of author(s),
ignored except in TM.
.IR x " is the reference line (initials of author and typist)."
.ti0
\&.SH	-	yes	Section head follows,
font automatically bold.
.ti0
\&.SM	no	no	Make letters smaller.
.ti0
\&.TA \fIx\fR...	5...	no	Set tabs in ens.
Default is 5 10 15 ...
.ti0
\&.TE	-	yes	End table.
.ti0
\&.TH	-	yes	End heading section of table.
.ti0
\&.TL	no	yes	Title follows.
.ti0
\&.TM \fIx\fR...	no	-	Print document in BTL technical memorandum format.
Arguments are TM number, (quoted list of) case number(s), and file number.
Must precede other requests.
.ti0
\&.TR \fIx\fR	-	-	Print in BTL technical report format; report number is \fIx\fR.  Must be first.
.ti0
\&.TS \fIx\fR	-	yes	Begin table; if
.I x
is
.I H
table heading is repeated on new pages.
.ti0
\&.UL \fIx\fR	-	no	Underline argument (even in troff).
.ti0
\&.UX	-	no	`UNIX'; first time used, add footnote `UNIX is a trademark of
Bell Laboratories.'
.ti0
\&.WH	-	no	`Bell Laboratories, Whippany,
New Jersey 07981'.
.ti0
\&.[	-	no	Begin reference; see
.IR refer (1)
.ti0
\&.]	-	no	End reference
.hc
